{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgray\c79525;}
{\info
{\title Factiva RTF Display Format}
{\author Factiva, from Dow Jones.}
{\*\company Factiva, from Dow Jones.}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12540\viewh16140\viewkind1
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc0%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'95	 Letters to the editor, July 12}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc1%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Border official resigns amid uproar over migrant children}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc2%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 House approves bill to expand gun-sale background checks}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc3%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Trump implores Missouri voters to dump McCaskill for Hawley}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc4%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Messenger: Remembering Leonard Cervantes, the grandson of immigrants who had a dream}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc5%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Letters to the editor, June 20}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc6%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Horrigan: Adolf, Donald and the Art of the Big Lie}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc7%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Meet the Trump supporters who don't want to see Alex Garcia deported}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc8%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 In Shutdown City, the blame game is never-ending}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc9%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 C6 \'95T. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH M 1 \'95 UnDAy \'951.19 .2017 A&E: TELEVISION Jean...}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc10%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Letters to the editor, Feb. 11}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc11%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Letters to the editor, Nov. 20}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc12%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Letters to the editor, July 1}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc13%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Nation briefs}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc14%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Harvard junior who took mom to Mexico can return}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc15%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Letters to the editor, Aug. 7}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc16%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Letters to the editor, April 8}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc17%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 POLITICS DIGEST}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc18%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Couple win right to adopt 5-year-old Illegal immigrant abandoned boy, judge rules in case that drew international scrutiny.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc19%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc20%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 LAW & ORDER PUBLIC SAFETY}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc21%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Immigration ruling worries group here Court decision in Arizona case may prompt more racial profiling, refugee advocates say.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc22%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Challenges are likely elsewhere SUPREME COURT RULINGS}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc23%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Arizona immigration law largely rejected SUPREME COURT RULINGS}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc24%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 High court denies twins Social Security benefits}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc25%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 LAW & ORDER}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc26%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 LAW & ORDER}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc27%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 LOCAL DIGEST}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc28%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 House GOP blasts Senate tax cut bill Republicans want yearlong version with 'reasonable' cuts in spending.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc29%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Justices go deeper in politics Supreme Court will hear challenge to Arizona immigration law.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc30%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 NATION DIGEST}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc31%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 NATION DIGEST}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc32%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Fact, fiction: Local authors write about illegal drug trade}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc33%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 NATION DIGEST}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc34%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Alabama law on illegals blocked Judge will review proposed immigration crackdown, decide whether it's constitutional.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc35%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Illegal immigrant is lauded}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc36%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Invisible Latino laborers seek 'A Better Life' Director Chris Weitz adapts Italian film to story of LA immigrants. ** \'bd}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc37%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Nation digest}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc38%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Rallying cry: 'Undocumented, unafraid' Many illegal immigrant high school youths are publicly announcing their status as they seek reform...}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc39%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Reporter reveals he is illegal immigrant ENTERTAINMENT}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc40%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Nation Digest}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc41%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Illinois officials rethink immigration program Under proposal, counties could opt out of enforcement, as many offenders are arrested on only...}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc42%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 DIGEST - NATION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc43%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Effort targets kids of illegals Conservative state lawmakers aim to cancel citizenship.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc44%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Immigration activists regroup after setback Young Latinos fighting for legal status face tougher foes in next Congress. WASHINGTON}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc45%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 PEOPLE ENTERTAINMENT}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc46%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Ex-liquor agent is sent to prison E. St. Louis' Walter Hill gets five years from federal judge who says city needs hope against corruption.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc47%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Immigration issue clouds custody fight Guatemalan ambassador weighs in on system's shortcomings. STL THURSDAY}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc48%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Noncitizen vets face deportation Law passed in 1996 expanded crimes for which they could be expelled. THE MILITARY}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc49%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Ex-congressman still in limelight in intern's murder Gary Condit may testify in trial of illegal immigrant charged in 2001 slaying.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc50%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 DIGEST - WORLD}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc51%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Migrant births defy claims of U.S. critics It's rare for immigrants to come to the country specifically to have a baby, study shows...}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc52%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 LAW & ORDER}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc53%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Death fuels immigration debate Authorities in Virginia hope nun's death in accident involving a drunk driver who was in the country...}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc54%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Primaries point to political shifts November candidates can't count on family names, incumbency. POLITICS}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc55%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc56%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc57%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 LETTERS FROM OUR READERS YOUR VIEWS}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc58%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Mexican, U.S. agents square off Border Patrol's killing of teen in Mexico adds to immigration fury.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc59%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc60%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Detainee centers can be census boom Counting of illegal immigrants could bring in more federal funds for small towns. NATION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc61%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Your views Letters from our readers}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc62%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc63%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 UMKC professor helped write Arizona law Lawmakers from around the country have been seeking his advice, and he is involved in nine...}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc64%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc65%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 LETTERS FROM OUR READERS}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc66%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 Uncivil rights Editorial notebook \'95rizona's new immigration law flouts our constitutional rights.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc67%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 DIGEST - NATION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc68%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 DIGEST - NATION}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%5Cl%20%22toc69%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 \
\'95	 DIGEST - NATION}}
\f1\fs20 \page \
\
\
Editorial\
\pard\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Letters to the editor, July 12
\f1\b0 \
\
1,123 words\
12 July 2019\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A12\
English\
Copyright 2019, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
Take profit out of health care, like the British do\
\
Regarding \'93hink twice when you hear the words \'91ublic option\'92ealth insurance\'94July 5): Dr. Ed Weisbart\'92 recent opinion piece was mind-opening. I was already aware that we in the U.S. spend twice as much per capita on health care compared to other developed countries and yet we obtain poorer outcomes. I also knew that health care in the U.S. is a for-profit enterprise, whereas in other developed countries, it\'92 mandated as the human right of every citizen.\
\
What I did not know is that the health insurance companies are promoting the \'93edicare Public Option\'94s opposed to \'93edicare for All,\'94o they can maintain their 20% overhead and high-level profitability.\
\
We must remove the profit from health care in the U.S., make it affordable to all, and yet maintain our high standards. We can do this. The British system is a fine example where basic health care is supplied to everyone. Citizens can \'93uy up\'94f they choose, using private insurers. Moreover, physicians are trained at state expense, which reduces their debt burden upon graduation. By all reports, the Brits think highly of their system. No wonder. The profit is gone, but the care remains.\
\
Let\'92 do this for ourselves.\
\
Michael J. Montague, Ph.D. \'95layton\
\
Life hasn\'92 changed much for some area neighborhoods\
\
Regarding \'93n St. Louis, neighborhoods where kids die too young seem frozen in time\'94July 1): Tony Messenger\'92 column rings true with me because I taught in the St. Louis Public school system at Blewett Middle School in 1970. The school was located at Cote Brilliante and Goodfellow.\
\
One time, I asked my 42 students how many of them could get a gun if I let them leave school for one hour? Twenty-three said it would be easy. I walked the perimeter of the school in the morning and before school let out in the afternoon. I looked for guns and regularly found them stashed at the ready before school let out.\
\
So many things have been frozen in time from then until today: gun violence, kids dying, food pantries low on staples and police officers dying. But most of my students then were great, as well as their families.\
\
We\'92e forgotten the gangs that were prevalent then but not quite as noticeable now. Mr. Messenger\'92 column was accurate but didn\'92 go back to 1970 when I was teaching.\
\
William Bauer \'95t.Peters\
\
Newspaper needs to take some blame for poor rankings\
\
Regarding the Short Takes editorial item \'93ank failures\'94July 6), commenting on WalletHub\'92 low rating of St. Louis, the Post-Dispatch\'92 editorial board concludes \'93\'85he rankings probably tell most St. Louisans what they already know.\'94\
\
Low rankings in public safety, education, overall quality of services and financial stability are functions good management solves. Therefore, one can assume the low rankings are the result of St. Louis\'92 poor management, otherwise known as elected officials.\
\
Since the vast majority of elected officials in the city have received endorsements from the Post-Dispatch, perhaps the newspaper bears some responsibility for that poor performance.\
\
Last week, the Post-Dispatch blamed a political campaign adviser who, in the course of his professional work, helped former St. Louis County Executive Steve Stenger\'92 reelection campaign. Omitted from the article was the fact that the Post-Dispatch had publicly endorsed Mr. Stenger reelection.\
\
There seems to be a pattern by the newspaper of not taking responsibility for its own actions.\
\
Lon Zimmerman \'95reve Coeur\
\
Lawmakers need to do the right thing concerning border\
\
It\'92 after midnight, and instead of sleeping, I\'92 up worrying and seething.\
\
How can Sens. Roy Blunt and Josh Hawley and Rep. Ann Wagner live in their fancy houses, sleeping in a comfortable bed, when it is illegal to give food and water to migrants?\
\
How can they stand to look in the mirror, knowing they have voted to keep kids in concentration camps, without their parents, and help show the world that we are not the welcoming America we have always been?\
\
My elected officials hide behind religion, corporate greed, false patriotism and hatred. Their self-satisfaction is disgusting, and their cruelty apparently knows no limit. I urge Blunt, Hawley and Wagner to end the detention camps now, before it\'92 truly too late. Demand that President Donald Trump fixes this situation so no one else is harmed or mistreated on your watch. Our lawmakers need to do the right thing.\
\
Sarah Peyton \'95allwin\
\
To solve border crisis, deal with Central America first\
\
We have hundreds of politicians giving their opinions on what should be done at our borders regarding the illegal immigrant dilemma. But I haven\'92 heard any clear solutions to change the dynamics in the Central American countries and improve conditions to reduce this mass migration.\
\
Until then, the analogy of those of us who live in the St. Louis region are the sandbags while much of the problem begins in the water management practices in the upper Midwest. Problems have to be dealt with at their source to reduce their impact further at the border or downstream.\
\
Roger Stojeba \'95irkwood\
\
Renters\'92ax credit would help answer homeless problem\
\
Regarding \'93enters need affordable housing, just like homeowners\'94June 28): I agree with letter writer Cynthia Levin that a renters tax credit for low and moderate income families is a potential tool to address the affordable housing crisis.\
\
Imagine living on an income such that you must choose between putting food on the table or a roof over that table. For the 11 million families who currently pay over 50 percent of their income for rent, this is not an hypothetical, but a reality.\
\
A renters\'92redit would limit rent for low-income families to 30 percent of their income and provide a tax credit for the balance above that, up to local fair market value. More people could then afford the rent and not rely on government assistance. In addition, it could provide the opportunity to put the funds aside to eventually become a homeowner.\
\
We must support such policies that can help people permanently exit homelessness. I urge all Missourians to call, write or visit your members of Congress and ask them to support a \'93enters\'92ax Credit\'94or low- and moderate-income families.\
\
Sri Jaladi \'95reve Coeur\
\
> Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters\
\
Editorial Cartoon by Pat Bagley, The Salt Lake Tribune - The American System of Justice Big MONEY puts A THUMB ON THE SCALE of a blindfolded 'Lady Justice', pinning her to the ground. \
\
Document SLMO000020190713ef7c0008f\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Border official resigns amid uproar over migrant children
\f1\b0 \
\
By NOMAAN MERCHAN, Associated Press, The Washington Post contributed to this report. \
1,345 words\
26 June 2019\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2019, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
The acting head of U.S. Customs and Border Protection resigned Tuesday amid an uproar over the discovery of migrant children being held in pitiful conditions at one of the agency\'92 stations in Texas.\
\
Just hours later, the House passed a $4.5 billion emergency funding bill, one containing provisions for the treatment of migrant children that Democratic leaders added amid widespread anger in their ranks over President Donald Trump\'92 handling of the crisis.\
\
Acting Commissioner John Sanders\'92eparture deepened the sense of crisis and added to the rapid turnover inside the agencies responsible for enforcing Trump\'92 hardline immigration priorities.\
\
In a message to employees, Sanders said he would step down on July 5. He did not give a reason for leaving.\
\
Two officials told The Associated Press that Sanders was being replaced by Mark Morgan, a former Fox News contributor who was named acting director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement just last month.\
\
In an interview last week, Sanders blamed the problems in detention on a lack of money, and he called on Congress to pass a emergency funding bill \'97hich the House did Tuesday night.\
\
The 230-to-195 largely party-line vote followed a flurry of last-minute negotiations among Democrats who said they have been horrified by reports of poor conditions at overcrowded facilities where unaccompanied children have been kept. The bill\'92 passage sets up a high-stakes negotiation with Trump and Senate Republicans to deliver aid.\
\
The backdrop for the vote was not only the humanitarian concerns about the surging numbers of migrants but also Trump\'92 threats \'97elayed but not canceled Saturday \'97o begin a mass deportation of illegal immigrant families. Democratic lawmakers had expressed concerns about passing a border aid bill that would not address both of those issues.\
\
House Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Nita M. Lowey, D-N.Y., unveiled changes to the bill Tuesday that would require the border agency to establish new health and safety standards for migrants in its custody, as well as protocols for dealing with migrant surges, within 30 days. The changes would also limit children\'92 stays at \'93nflux shelters\'94sed by the Department of Health and Human Services to no more than 90 days and require the department to report to Congress on their use.\
\
Additional changes Lowey described Tuesday afternoon would bar shelter contractors who do not provide adequate accommodations, food and personal items, such as toothbrushes, as well as routine medical care, schooling, leisure activities, and other basic services.\
\
\'93 don\'92 even know how to describe the idea that we have to tell them: You\'92e got to provide food and water to these kids,\'94aid Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., who pushed for the final revisions. \'93ut that\'92 what we\'92e doing.\'94\
\
While activists welcomed Sanders\'92eparture, Trump defended U.S. border authorities, saying, \'93he laws are so bad and the asylum rules and laws are so bad that our Border Patrol people, who are so incredible, aren\'92 allowed to do their jobs.\'94\
\
The unprecedented surge of migrant families has left U.S. immigration detention centers severely overcrowded and taxed the government\'92 ability to provide medical care and other attention. Six children have died since September after being detained by border agents.\
\
After he was picked to lead ICE, Morgan, the new acting director, showed a willingness to deport families during enforcement sweeps. However, past Trump immigration officials hesitated over concerns about logistics and the public\'92 reaction.\
\
The Trump administration has faced a barrage of criticism in recent days over conditions inside the Border Patrol facility in Clint, Texas: inadequate food, lack of medical care, no soap, and older children trying to care for toddlers.\
\
In one case reported in Clint, attorneys said a 2-year-old boy without a diaper was being watched by older children. Several youngsters had the flu. Many were separated from extended family members like aunts and uncles who brought them to the border; others were teenage mothers with babies.\
\
As word of the children\'92 plight got out, people moved by their stories started showing up at the station\'92 doors to donate boxes of diapers and even a Cookie Monster stuffed toy. They were not allowed in the building. Customs and Border Protection says it has enough supplies, but was checking with lawyers to see if it could accept donated items.\
\
An official from Customs and Border Protection said Tuesday that most of the roughly 300 children detained at Clint last week had been moved to facilities operated by the Office of Refugee Resettlement.\
\
But around the same time Sanders announced his resignation, his agency said officials had moved more than 100 children back to the station.\
\
The human costs of the migrant surge were driven home this week by a searing photo of the bodies of a Salvadoran man and his nearly 2-year-old daughter, face down in shallow water along the Mexican side of the Rio Grande. On Sunday, two babies, a toddler and a woman were found dead on the Texas side, overcome by the sweltering heat.\
\
Trump said he is \'93ery concerned\'94bout conditions at the border but claimed without evidence that things are \'93uch better than they were under President Obama, by far\'94nd in \'93uch better shape than it ever was\'94\'97n assertion immigration activists said is simply not true.\
\
\'93e did not have the kind of overcrowded conditions for unaccompanied kids in Border Patrol holding cells like we saw in Clint,\'94aid Michael Bochenek, a lawyer from Human Rights Watch.\
\
Previously CBP\'92 chief operating officer, Sanders was named acting commissioner in April after the agency\'92 previous leader, Kevin McAleenan, became acting secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. Other key DHS agencies also have interim or acting directors, including U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.\
\
Morgan, who also served as chief of the Border Patrol, a subsidiary of CBP, under President Barack Obama, is now expected to be replaced as ICE\'92 acting leader by Matthew Albence. Albence served as acting director earlier this year after the departure of another former leader, Ronald Vitiello.\
\
ICE on Saturday delayed an operation to sweep U.S. cities and arrest hundreds of people accused of flouting orders to leave the country, days after Trump tweeted about the upcoming crackdown. Former ICE acting director Thomas Homan, a Trump administration ally, then went on television to accuse McAleenan of leaking information about the operation because he opposed it.\
\
CBP is the agency that apprehends and first detains migrant parents and children crossing the Mexican border.\
\
CBP\'92 facilities at the border were almost all built when most people crossing into the U.S. illegally were single adults. Now, the agency is apprehending tens of thousands of parents and children weekly. It recorded 84,500 apprehensions of adults and children traveling together in May.\
\
In the wake of Sanders\'92esignation, Democratic Rep. Bennie G. Thompson of Mississippi, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, lashed out at the administration\'92 immigration policies and \'93ad actors in the White House.\'94\
\
\'93here is simply no excuse for the horrific conditions children and families are being held in at the border,\'94e said.\
\
Jennifer Quigley, director of refugee advocacy for Human Rights First, called on Congress to hold hearings on the youngsters\'92reatment.\
\
\'93rump administration officials need to be held accountable for the disgraceful response to the situation at the border,\'94he said in a statement. \'93his is only the tip of the iceberg. We need a full accounting of how children came to be caged in filthy and unsafe conditions.\'94\
\
A migrant mother and children ride a freight train on their way north in Mexico's Chiapas state on Monday. Record numbers of migrants have been arriving at the southern U.S. border recently. Photo by MARCO UGARTE, ASSOCIATED PRESS \
\
Document SLMO000020190627ef6q000ji\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b House approves bill to expand gun-sale background checks
\f1\b0 \
\
By MATTHEW DALY, Associated Press \
769 words\
28 February 2019\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A12\
English\
Copyright 2019, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
WASHINGTON \'95he Democratic-controlled House approved on Wednesday a measure requiring federal background checks for all firearms sales and transfers, the first major gun control legislation considered by Congress in nearly 25 years.\
\
Democrats called the 240-190 vote a major step to end the gun lobby\'92 grip on Washington and begin to address an epidemic of gun violence that kills thousands of Americans every year, including 17 people shot and killed at a Florida high school last year.\
\
The bill is the first of two the House is voting on this week as Democrats move to tighten gun laws after eight years of Republican control. The other bill would extend the review period for background checks to 10 days from three.\
\
Both bills face dim prospects in the Republican-controlled Senate and veto threats from President Donald Trump, who said they would impose unreasonable requirements on gun owners.\
\
Just eight Republicans joined 232 Democrats to support the bill, while only two Democrats voted against it.\
\
The White House said in a veto message that the background-checks bill could block someone from borrowing a firearm for self-defense or allowing a neighbor to take care of a gun while traveling.\
\
Democrats called those arguments misleading and said gun owners had a responsibility to ensure firearms were properly handled. The bill includes exceptions allowing temporary transfers to prevent imminent harm or for use at a target range.\
\
The long-delayed bill would merely close loopholes to ensure that background checks are extended to private and online sales, which often go undetected, Democrats said.\
\
\'93eople who are felons or are dangerously mentally ill shouldn\'92 have guns\'94egardless of whether they buy them from a federally licensed dealer or their next-door neighbor, said Rep. Mike Thompson, D-Calif., a key sponsor who has pushed for expanded background checks since the killing in 2012 of 20 elementary school students in Newtown, Conn.\
\
\'93or 6\'bdears, we had no cooperation from the past majority\'94n the House, Thompson said. \'93e couldn\'92 get a hearing on the bill. We couldn\'92 get a vote. Today, we\'92e here to tell you it\'92 a new day. With this (Democratic) majority, we have made a commitment to address the issue of gun violence.\'94\
\
While Republicans mostly opposed the bill, the GOP scored a procedural victory when the House accepted a Republican amendment requiring that gun sellers notify Immigration and Customs Enforcement when an illegal immigrant tries to buy a gun. Twenty-six Democrats joined with Republicans to support the amendment, offered by Rep. Doug Collins, R-Ga.\
\
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi downplayed the GOP proposal, saying, \'93e won a big victory \'97et the message.\'94\
\
Pelosi, D-Calif., called the House vote \'93istoric\'94nd hailed the bill as \'93 long-overdue, commonsense action to end the epidemic of gun violence in America.\'94\
\
To demonstrate her support for the bill, Pelosi wore an orange dress while other Democrats wore orange ties or scarves, the color used by the movement against gun violence.\
\
Rep. Madeleine Dean, D-Pa., said she hoped the symbolism would become obsolete. \'93 long for the day when orange scarves are a fashion statement, not a cry for help,\'94aid Dean, who was wearing a bright orange scarf.\
\
House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., who was gravely wounded in a 2017 shooting at a congressional baseball practice, said stricter background checks would not have prevented his shooting or other tragedies.\
\
\'93hat it would do is make criminals out of law-abiding citizens,\'94calise said. \'93f you go hunting with a friend and your friend wants to borrow your rifle, you better bring your attorney with you because depending on what you do with that gun you may be a felon if you loan it to him.\'94\
\
Democrats said the bill included exceptions allowing temporary transfers for anyone who feels threatened by a domestic partner or other person. The bill also allows a gun owner to loan their weapon and for use at a target range.\
\
FILE - In this Jan. 8, 2019, file photo Rep. Mike Thompson, D-Calif., pauses while speaking during a news conference to announce the introduction of bipartisan legislation to expand background checks for sales and transfers of firearms, on Capitol Hill in Washington. The Democratic-controlled House on Wednesday approved a measure requiring federal background checks for all firearms sales and transfers, the first major gun control legislation considered by Congress in nearly 25 years. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon, File) \
\
Document SLMO000020190228ef2s000p1\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Trump implores Missouri voters to dump McCaskill for Hawley
\f1\b0 \
\
By CATHERINE LUCEY, Associated Press \
683 words\
2 November 2018\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2018, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
COLUMBIA, Mo. \'95resident Donald Trump implored voters on Thursday to reject Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill and to instead install a Republican in her seat who would fully back his agenda.\
\
Trump appeared at a rollicking campaign rally in Columbia in an airline hangar draped in American flags. It was his second rally in an 11-stop, eight-state tour designed to boost Republican turnout ahead of Tuesday\'92 crucial midterm elections.\
\
The president, accompanied by McCaskill\'92 Republican challenger, Josh Hawley, declared that Hawley \'93ill be a star.\'94\
\
Hawley, the current attorney general, sought to link McCaskill to Trump\'92 Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, who lost the state in 2016 by nearly 19 percentage points.\
\
\'93laire McCaskill has spent her lifetime in politics just like Hillary,\'94awley said. \'93laire McCaskill wanted us to call Hillary Clinton \'91adam President.\'92n Nov. 6, we\'92e going to call Claire McCaskill \'91ired.\'92\'94\
\
With four days to go until midterm elections that determine control of Congress, Republicans are optimistic they could make gains in the Senate, but they might struggle to maintain a majority in the House.\
\
McCaskill is among a number of vulnerable Democrats running in red states. She is a top target for Republicans seeking to expand the party\'92 slim 51-49 edge in the U.S. Senate.\
\
McCaskill is pitching herself as a moderate as she seeks to hold onto her seat. She has sought to distance herself from \'93razy Democrats\'94nd said in an appearance on Fox News that she supported Trump\'92 efforts to secure the southern border. Hawley has dismissed her efforts and argues that she is not the right fit for an increasingly conservative state.\
\
Trump said that McCaskill had been \'93aying nice things\'94ut that she \'93ants to get elected and then she\'92l always vote against us.\'94\
\
A check of her record, however, shows that McCaskill votes with the president about half the time, though she has opposed him on some key issues, including his tax cuts and the recent confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.\
\
The president, who threatened this week to end a constitutional right that automatically grants citizenship to any baby born in the United States, railed against the 14th Amendment during the rally, calling it a \'93razy, lunatic policy\'94upported by Democrats.\
\
\'93he Democrats want to continue giving automatic birthright citizenship to every child born to an illegal immigrant, even if they\'92e been on our soil for a mere matter of seconds,\'94rump said. \'93undreds of thousands of children born to illegal immigrants are made automatic citizens of the United States every year because of this crazy, lunatic policy that we can end.\'94\
\
Trump expressed optimism for the midterm elections, though he noted that Republican momentum had been blunted in recent days by \'93wo maniacs\'94\'97 reference to a mail bomb scare and a mass shooting at a Pittsburgh synagogue. He added, \'93e don\'92 care about momentum when it comes to a disgrace like just happened to our country.\'94\
\
However, he said, \'93t did nevertheless stop a certain momentum. And now the momentum is picking up.\'94\
\
The president will return to Missouri before Election Day, rallying voters Monday in Cape Girardeau.\
\
Missouri Attorney General and Republican U.S. Senate candidate Josh Hawley addresses the crowd alongside President Donald Trump during a Make America Great Again rally on Thursday, Nov. 1, 2018, at Hangar 350 at the Columbia Regional Airport,. Trump will be back  Monday in Missouri to campaign for Hawley and the get out and vote message in Cape Girardeau. Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com  President Donald Trumps campaigns for Missouri Attorney General and Republican U.S. Senate campaigns Josh Hawley during a Make America Great Again rally on Thursday, Nov. 1, 2018, at Hangar 350 at the Columbia Regional Airport,. Trump will be back Monday in Missouri to campaign for Hawley and the  get out and vote message in Cape Girardeau. Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com \
\
Document SLMO000020181103eeb2000dz\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Messenger: Remembering Leonard Cervantes, the grandson of immigrants who had a dream
\f1\b0 \
\
By Tony Messenger, St. Louis Post-Dispatch \
873 words\
6 July 2018\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A2\
English\
Copyright 2018, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
It was a benchmark year for the Cervantes family.\
\
Phil, the youngest of the seven children of Leonard A. and Eloise Cervantes, turned 50.\
\
His mother will celebrate her 90th birthday in October.\
\
Older brother Ed turned 60.\
\
Another brother, George, hit the big Six-Five.\
\
On Friday, Leonard P. Cervantes, the oldest of five brothers and two sisters, would have been 70.\
\
He didn\'92 make it.\
\
The longtime St. Louis trial attorney died unexpectedly June 23, while attending a legal conference at the Lake of the Ozarks. He is survived by a longtime companion, Susan Veidt; his daughter, Gaby; his mother; and, of course, his brothers and sisters.\
\
Phil and Leonard had a closeness that belied their age difference.\
\
\'93e had a unique relationship,\'94hil recalls.\
\
Leonard was his youngest brother\'92 godfather, his confirmation sponsor, the best man at his wedding, and his law partner. \'93e was my mentor,\'94hil says.\
\
Cervantes was also, an outpouring of friends and colleagues told me this week, one helluva trial attorney.\
\
In certain circles these days, particularly legislative ones where some Republican lawmakers are constantly trying to pass laws to make it harder for trial attorneys to represent clients who have been harmed by corporate greed, indifference or malfeasance, the profession is under fire.\
\
But that criticism belies the sort of work most trial attorneys do on a daily basis to make sure that people who have been unfairly harmed \'97r killed \'97y somebody\'92 negligence, have their day in court.\
\
\'93e wanted to be a voice for the underdog,\'94hil says. \'93e would take cases that two or three other attorneys had turned down. He took pride in doing that.\'94\
\
Cervantes represented people such as Angela Brannon, who won a civil lawsuit against her landlord after her 3-year-old son, Nathan, died in a fire in an apartment that didn\'92 have working smoke detectors. Then there was Torrence Mull, the 16-year-old north St. Louis teen who was shot to death in 2001 at a bus stop by a city police officer who never left his police cruiser. Mull had a BB gun in his waistband. At trial, the police officer changed his previous testimony, saying the boy never pointed the BB gun at him. The jury ruled against Mull\'92 mother in the civil case.\
\
\'93enny lived the last line\'94f the oath attorneys take when passing the bar, says his longtime friend and colleague Amy Diemer \'97he one that says \'93 will practice law to the best of my knowledge and ability and with consideration for the defenseless and oppressed.\'94\
\
Diemer is the managing attorney for the Catholic Legal Assistance Ministry in St. Louis, which for the past several months has been engaged in a process of helping undocumented immigrants in the region understand their rights. The organization has guided hundreds of families through the process of signing power-of-attorney documents that protect their children \'97ften citizens of the U.S. even when the mother and father are not \'97n the case of deportation proceedings.\
\
Cervantes had been offering legal advice and financial support to the effort. He had also encouraged other lawyers to volunteer their time. What Diemer didn\'92 realize is just how close to his heart the issue of immigration was to the lawyer.\
\
Cervantes\'92ather, Leonard A. Cervantes, was born in Panhandle, Texas, about a week after his parents crossed the border from Mexico in 1920. The family would work on railroads and in beet fields from Texas to Montana. They eventually settled in Moline, Ill., where they raised eight children. Their oldest son, John \'97e went by Jack \'97as born in Mexico. Eventually, Jack would serve in the U.S. Air Force. He became a citizen, and he wrote a book about his childhood: \'93y Moline, A Young Illegal Immigrant Dreams.\'94\
\
His little brother, Leonard A., would eventually settle his family in Bettendorf, Iowa. Like four of his brothers, he fought for his country in World War II, earning a Bronze Star. After the war, he was a factory worker who instilled in his children the desire to gain the education he never had.\
\
Three of them became lawyers.\
\
The oldest, Leonard P., would be the first to make the trek to St. Louis, where he graduated from St. Louis University School of Law and went to work representing people like his father, people who often had nowhere else to turn for justice.\
\
His story is the story of an American immigrant family.\
\
Leonard P. Cervantes died at a time when the country is still struggling with the understanding of how and why immigrants come to our shores, often at great personal risk, to seek a better life.\
\
From generation to generation that story continues. This summer, Cervantes\'92aughter Gaby, a student at Fordham University, worked as an intern in Diemer\'92 office, helping the next generation of immigrants have the opportunity created for her by great-grandparents with a dream, and passed on by children and grandchildren who remembered their roots.\
\
Attorney Leonard P. Cervantes. Photo provided by Cervantes family. \
\
Document SLMO000020180707ee76000ei\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Letters to the editor, June 20
\f1\b0 \
\
1,118 words\
20 June 2018\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A16\
English\
Copyright 2018, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
Show goodwill toward people trying to enter U.S.\
\
If you consider yourself a good Christian, or any other person of goodwill, please think about this and then look deep into your conscience to determine who you really are.\
\
The refugees trying to enter the United States are people \'97uman beings just like you, just like me. The circumstances of birth and the place of birth are the only differences that make the supplicants at our border different from us, who have been blessed to be born in America.\
\
Try to imagine that you and your family are the people seeking refuge in the United States. You don\'92 deserve to be in such desperate circumstances. You believe that getting into the United States is your only hope, but the leaders of the great country are separating people like you from their children. They are not telling you if and when you will be reunited. You and your children are terrified and grieving for the possible end of your family.\
\
Do you really want to go through this unbearable suffering? Do you believe other people deserve this? If you do believe that these innocent human beings should be treated in this way, ask yourself \'93m I a true Christian, or a true believer in goodwill to humanity?\'94\
\
Kathleen Donovan \'95t. Louis\
\
Immigration officers doing their job in enforcing the law\
\
I find all of the discussions about the separation of illegal immigrant children very confusing. Lots of people are expressing lots of emotions over this, but at the same time if an American mother gets arrested for a crime and is incarcerated, she is separated from her children and few people seem upset about that. What\'92 the difference?\
\
The Post-Dispatch published an extensive Q&A from the Los Angeles Times (June 19) that clearly states that the laws being enforced are Title 8 of U.S. Code 1325 and 1326. This is federal law that has been on the books for many years and has been routinely updated.\
\
The selectivity on the part of all of the commentators is confusing. If you don\'92 like it, petition the Congress to change the law. Don\'92 go after the law enforcement people because all they are doing is enforcing the laws that previous presidents have signed.\
\
Joseph E. Devine \'95t. Louis\
\
Spain can serve as example on accepting refugees\
\
The article \'93\'91ollective solutions\'92n migration also eluding European Union\'94June 17) by Lorne Cook of The Associated Press addresses the pressing need for the European Union to find a collective solution to the desperate problem of refugees fleeing life-threatening danger.\
\
The government of Spain under the leadership of Pedro Sanchez recently accepted more than 1,500 refugees. In cooperation with the Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders, the maritime-humanitarian organization SOS Mediterranee, and volunteer groups such as Valencia Food Bank, Spain not only allowed refugees to enter the country but welcomed them to their new home. In so doing, the people of Spain showed themselves to be true to their cultural heritage.\
\
As Yale scholar Maria Rosa Menocal demonstrates in her book \'93he Ornament of the World,\'94or five centuries Jews, Christians and Muslims lived and worked together in an atmosphere of shared acceptance, respect and understanding. In medieval Spain, this mutually enriching culture flourished on the Iberian peninsula, producing magnificent examples of religious tolerance, economic prosperity, art, architecture, literature and science.\
\
Cook refers to European Commission Vice President Frans Timmermans, who warns that only a collective solution by the European Union can solve the massive refugee problem. Perhaps the world could look to Spain, both historical and present-day, as a shining example of people\'92 ability to accept each other\'92 differences, to learn from each other, to cooperate, and to produce a flowering civilization and culture.\
\
Margaret Gilleo \'95adue\
\
Change terrible loophole in immigration law\
\
The news is filled with the politically motivated rhetoric regarding illegal immigrants and their children. The law that permits this type of illegal immigration under the guise of need for asylum because their country is dangerous needs to be changed. This is a terrible loophole that has provided an incentive for people in other countries to pay to have the family or just their children transported to the U.S. border in hopes of getting entry.\
\
I realize there are many people around the world who live in dangerous environments. However, the United States cannot accept entry of all of these people.\
\
Members of Congress can stop babbling and establish a law that eliminates this provision as the first step to immigration reform. Had they done their job, none of this would be an issue as the children would be with their parents and still in their home country.\
\
Len Poli \'95edar Hill\
\
Persecuting people who seek new start in new land\
\
It is becoming more and more embarrassing to be an American. We insult our allies, praise a dictator and separate children from their families. Why?\
\
We have forgotten why this country began. People who came here felt persecuted, overtaxed and sought a new start in a new land. Why is that now a reason to persecute, tax and deny these former freedoms?\
\
Grace McGaughy \'95restwood\
\
Immigration policy is cruel and wrong\
\
Remember dropping off your child at daycare or school for the first time? Maybe, terrified of facing the unknown without you, the child reached for you screaming, \'93ommy\'94ncontrollably, making it nearly impossible for you to leave. Then think about that exact scenario, except you don\'92 know where your child is going or if your child is going to be well cared for. You have no idea if you will ever see your child again.\
\
Yes, we are a country of laws, but there is no crime for which doing this to children is appropriate. It is cruel and it is wrong.\
\
Stacy Ross \'95t. Louis\
\
Thanks for media coverage of Schoendienst\'92 funeral\
\
The bistate community offers double thanks: to the Post-Dispatch for generous coverage of Red Schoendienst and to those stations providing TV coverage of his funeral.\
\
The magnificent Cathedral Basilica of St. Louis could never have accommodated the throngs of citizens, players, fans and hometown folks who loved this All-Star Cardinal and all-around gentleman. What a gift he was.\
\
Bretta Ribbing \'95anchester\
\
> Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters\
\
Editorial Cartoon by Clay Bennett, Chattanooga Times Free Press - Border Patrol An IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT BORDER PATROL truck with decals of a stick-figure family separated: Mother and father on one side of the window, a child alone on the other side. \
\
Document SLMO000020180621ee6k00037\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Horrigan: Adolf, Donald and the Art of the Big Lie
\f1\b0 \
\
By Kevin Horrigan, St. Louis Post-Dispatch \
907 words\
17 June 2018\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A17\
English\
Copyright 2018, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
Ever since Donald Trump announced his campaign for the presidency, there\'92 been a lot of talk about the \'93ig lie\'94echnique \'97he more outrageous and untrue the statement, the more people are likely to believe it. The concept is usually ascribed to Adolf Hitler in his turgid screed \'93ein Kampf.\'94\
\
I always thought the Hitler reference was itself a big lie. As a believer in Godwin\'92 Law \'97As an online discussion grows longer, the probability of a comparison involving Hitler approaches 1\'94meaning someone will always bring him up) \'97 figured it was too facile. Hitler is always over the top.\
\
Still I kept hearing the \'93ein Kampf\'94tory. So I decided to look it up. It turns out to be true. It further turns out that Hitler, in this one insight, knew what he was talking about. His claims have subsequently been confirmed by psychologists who have studied why people believe what they do, even in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary.\
\
Hitler knew it more than 90 years ago, writing, \'93ll this was inspired by the principle \'97hich is quite true in itself \'97hat in the big lie there is always a certain force of credibility; because the broad masses of a nation are always more easily corrupted in the deeper strata of their emotional nature than consciously or voluntarily; and thus in the primitive simplicity of their minds they more readily fall victims to the big lie than the small lie, since they themselves often tell small lies in little matters but would be ashamed to resort to large-scale falsehoods.\
\
\'93t would never come into their heads to fabricate colossal untruths, and they would not believe that others could have the impudence to distort the truth so infamously. Even though the facts which prove this to be so may be brought clearly to their minds, they will still doubt and waver and will continue to think that there may be some other explanation.\
\
\'93or the grossly impudent lie always leaves traces behind it, even after it has been nailed down, a fact which is known to all expert liars in this world and to all who conspire together in the art of lying. These people know only too well how to use falsehood for the basest purposes.\'94\
\
Wow. \'93n the primitive simplicity of their minds\'94he \'93road masses\'94re more easily swayed by emotions than rigorous analysis. These people tell small lies about small matters, but would never believe someone capable of \'93olossal untruths.\'94\
\
Hitler blamed the Jews for all of this, but it became his operating principle. In 1941, his propaganda minister, Joseph Goebbels, blamed the technique on Winston Churchill:\
\
\'93he essential English leadership secret does not depend on particular intelligence. Rather, it depends on a remarkably stupid thick-headedness. The English follow the principle that when one lies, one should lie big, and stick to it. They keep up their lies, even at the risk of looking ridiculous.\'94\
\
This could explain why Trump continues to say he would\'92e won the popular vote in 2016 had it not been for illegal immigrant voters. It could explain his insistence, despite overwhelming photographic evidence, that his inauguration crowd was bigger than Barack Obama\'92. It could explain \'93o collusion\'94nd \'93itch hunt\'94nd ice caps \'93t a record level.\'94t could explain his claim that ripping immigrant children from their families was invented by Democrats.\
\
It could explain global warming is a \'93oax\'94nd miners digging \'93ood clean coal\'94nd the \'9317 billion minimum\'94rade deficit with Canada that is in fact a $2.8 billion surplus.\
\
In \'93he Art of Deal\'94n 1987, Trump coined the term \'93ruthful hyperbole,\'94laiming that \'93eople want to believe that something is the biggest and the greatest and the most spectacular. It\'92 an innocent form of exaggeration \'97nd a very effective form of promotion.\'94\
\
It\'92 as if he can\'92 help himself, or that he\'92 adopted \'93einfeld\'94haracter George Costanza's creed: \'93t\'92 not a lie if you believe it.\'94\
\
In a Fox News interview on Wednesday, Trump said that one of the side benefits of his summit meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was that the remains of some U.S. soldiers killed during the Korean War would be repatriated.\
\
Rather than stop there, with a good thing, Trump went on to say that parents of MIA Korean soldiers had approached him during the 2016 campaign to ask him to bring their boys\'92emains home. As The Washington Post noted, the average parent of the average Korean War soldier would have been between 102 and 111 years old in 2016 and unlikely to be at a campaign event.\
\
Many of Trump\'92 supporters know he lies; they just don\'92 care. They like that he\'92 not Hillary Clinton and that he irritates liberals. Spite is remarkably stupid and thick-headed reason for anything.\
\
At left, the crowd at Barack Obama's inauguration in 2009. At right, the crowd at Donald Trump's 2017 inauguration. Under the George Costanza Rule ("It's not a lie if you believe it") Trump's was bigger. (Left, AP photo. Right, The White House via YouTube)  FILE PHOTO -- Adolf Hitler in a 1933 photo taken shortly after he was named chancellor. \
\
Document SLMO000020180624ee6h00008\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Meet the Trump supporters who don't want to see Alex Garcia deported
\f1\b0 \
\
By Doug Moore, St. Louis Post-Dispatch \
2,504 words\
25 February 2018\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2018, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
POPLAR BLUFF, MO. \'95eal estate developer Jim Bailey voted for Donald Trump and has not wavered in his support of the president.Like Trump, Bailey thinks the country\'92 immigration system needs more scrutiny. But the men\'92 paths veer when it comes to how those who are in the U.S. illegally should be treated.\
\
That difference in opinion for Bailey can be attributed to Alex Garcia, a construction worker from Honduras who has called Poplar Bluff home since 2004 but now faces deportation.\
\
\'93 don\'92 view Alex as an illegal immigrant. Just a normal guy,\'94aid Bailey, 56. Garcia\'92 case should not be weighed like all the others who entered the country unlawfully, he said.\
\
\'93 don\'92 think everyone falls into the same category,\'94ailey said.\
\
Bailey\'92 comments reflect the overwhelming support Garcia has garnered from those who worked with him over the years in this part of the country, firmly behind Trump.\
\
In the November 2016 presidential election, Trump received 79 percent of the votes in Butler County. Poplar Bluff, the county seat, is where Garcia lived until September with his wife, Carly, and their five children, all U.S. citizens.\
\
But for the past five months, Garcia, 36, has been living in a Maplewood church, where he sought sanctuary from deportation after the federal government denied his request to stay in the country.\
\
Within the week, attorneys for Garcia are expected to file another application seeking a stay that would allow him to move back to Poplar Bluff and remain in the country legally for another year. They are not optimistic, however. It was a similar request that was denied in September, which led to the move into the church. A second application filed in October also was rejected.\
\
Nicole Cort\'e9, an attorney with the Migrant and Immigrant Community Action Project, or MICA, said there are no other options at this point than to continue filing applications, hoping the political landscape on immigration makes a seismic move.\
\
There is reason to hold out hope: Before the two rejections, Garcia had successfully gotten two extensions.\
\
Garcia first tried to cross into the U.S. in 2000 when he was 19. He was caught by Border Patrol agents and issued an order of removal. Four years later, he tried again, this time successfully. For more than a decade, he remained under the radar of immigration officials. But in 2015, he accompanied his sister to an appointment at a U.S. Immigrant and Customs Enforcement office in Kansas City. There, investigators turned their questions toward Garcia and linked him to the 2000 deportation order, which was still in effect.\
\
He was detained for a few weeks before MICA successfully applied for a stay of removal, good for one year. A second stay was offered the following year. But last summer, with Trump well into his first year in office, the request for Garcia to stay in the country was denied. He was told to report Sept. 21 at an ICE office to be deported.\
\
Out of legal options, immigrant advocates suggested Garcia move into a church, where he would be shielded from federal agents. In 2011, ICE enacted a policy designating \'93ensitive locations\'94here officials would not likely enforce immigration laws. The locations include churches, schools and hospitals.\
\
Forty people across the country have taken up residence in a place of worship to avoid being kicked out of the country, according to Church World Service, an international agency working with refugees and immigrants.\
\
Garcia is the only one in Missouri.\
\
'SUPER QUALITY PEOPLE'\
\
Poplar Bluff is a railroad town, the depot on Main Street a landmark. Amtrak and Union Pacific trains pass through the heart of the community, dubbed "The Gateway to the Ozarks." It's here where Garcia, after two weeks of train rides, deboarded and took root in the U.S. after immediately landing a job at a Mexican restaurant. Along the way, he met Carly Zuniga, and they were married in May 2010. Between them, they have five kids, ages 3 to 11.\
\
Garcia went to work for a construction company run by his father-in-law, Benji Zuniga, gaining a reputation in the community for his willingness to tackle tough jobs.\
\
"I've never seen nothing the man wouldn't do," said Corbit Barnet, 58, who also works in the construction business. "He is one of the hardest-working guys I've ever met. And he does it all with smiles."\
\
Barnet said Garcia crossing the border "wasn't the best thing to do." But more than 13 years have passed, he said, and Garcia has proven he is a contributing member of the community of 17,000, where 84 percent of the population is white and just more than 2 percent are Latino.\
\
"Not every one is good. But this one is," Barnet said of Garcia. "I'd bet my life on it."\
\
Barnet supports Trump but questions whether spending billions on a southern border wall makes sense.\
\
"Saying that, I don't live on the border. So it's a gray area for me," Barnet said.\
\
Barnet was among about 50 people who showed up this month for a banquet to raise money for Garcia's family and provide an update on his case. It was held in an empty storefront at Mansion Mall, a shopping center owned by Bailey. Garcia's image was projected onto the wall as he sat in front of a computer 150 miles away in the fellowship hall at Christ Church United Church of Christ in Maplewood. Members of the church surrounded him. An "Alex Belongs Here" sign hung from the ceiling.\
\
The pastor of Christ Church, the Rev. Rebecca Turner, was in Poplar Bluff for the banquet. She said she continues to be overwhelmed by the support the small church has received. The only fallout, Turner said, was the loss of a church member who said the congregation has become too political. Carly Garcia, usually with the children in tow, heads to the Maplewood church at least twice a month to visit her husband.\
\
At the banquet, Garcia thanked everyone for their support and told them he missed them. Several of those dining on donated pizza, sandwiches and nachos stepped up to the computer screen, offering encouraging words.\
\
"Good seeing you, buddy."\
\
"What's up, bro?"\
\
"Keep on smiling. Don't let them take that."\
\
"Love you, brother."\
\
"Hopefully we'll see you soon."\
\
"We sure do miss you. Everybody does. The community needs you here," said John Polasek. Garcia and his father-in-law built the Little Caesars pizza restaurant that Polasek owns.\
\
"Super quality people," Polasek said of Garcia and Zuniga. "It's amazing how they work."\
\
Polasek, 53, said his support of Trump remains strong.\
\
"I believe in our president, but there should be more of a checks and balances" regarding immigration, he said. Ultimately, something should be worked out "really fast" so that Garcia can return to Poplar Bluff. Polasek said he can't imagine what Garcia must be going through, living apart from his family, uncertain what's next. As he talked, Polasek nodded to his wife and two teenage children.\
\
"I don't know what I'd do without them."\
\
Before stepping away, Polasek said of Garcia: "I call him a true friend."\
\
LETTERS OF SUPPORT\
\
As she turned the empty storefront into a banquet space, Carly Garcia placed a small stack of index cards on each table. Supporters were asked to write notes to her husband. Each table had a different photo of Alex as the centerpiece. On a table near the entrance was a piece of paper offering suggestions for what to write in letters of support that would be turned in with the new application:\
\
\'93lex is a respected and loved member of our community.\'94\
\
\'93hen I am struggling with a project around the house, Alex always volunteers to help.\'94\
\
\'93lex is a father of five U.S. citizen children. I have seen the ways that he raises these children with love and strong Christian values.\'94\
\
\'93ot only is he a skilled contractor, Alex is patient and takes the time to teach his skills to others.\'94\
\
Sara John, program coordinator for St. Louis Inter-Faith Committee on Latin America, an immigrant rights group, said the application seeking a stay for Garcia will include: letters of support \'93o further demonstrate his value in our community\'94 an argument that the last rejection was made without a thorough review of the paperwork; and a reminder that the ongoing political volatility and violence in Honduras would make it unsafe to send Garcia back.\
\
Like before, the new application for Garcia will be filed with immigration offices at the Robert A. Young Federal Building in downtown St. Louis.\
\
Carly Garcia thanked the crowd . \'93e would literally do everything, anything he could possibly do for any one of you. I know he is grateful for everything.\'94\
\
The event was promoted through Facebook and the local paper, the Daily American Republic, which ran a story referring to the Garcia family as \'93 local face to the immigration struggle.\'94\
\
Barnet, like so many other of Alex Garcia\'92 supporters, said a case-by-case basis should be the system in establishing whether someone stays in the country. Doing that, however, when there are an estimated 11 million people living in the U.S. illegally is an admittedly tall order, they said. But if Barnet has a voice in the debate, he thinks it should be heard.\
\
\'93\'92 a veteran. I\'92e served my time. I think I should have a little bit of say,\'94arnet said. \'93e didn\'92 get into this country to hurt anyone, only to help himself. Good people deserve the right to come to this country.\'94\
\
\'95atch Alex Garcia communicate with his children in Poplar Bluff over cellphone video. stltoday.com/watch\
\
---\
\
ABOUT HONDURAS\
\
Immigrant rights advocates seeking a stay for Alex Garcia will cite, among other things, the dangers he faces if he is deported to Honduras.\'a0\
\
A U.S. ally in the fight to reduce drug trafficking and gangs, Honduras is consistently ranked as one of the most dangerous countries in the world.\
\
Sandwiched between Guatemala and Nicaragua, Honduras is currently embroiled in a violent push back against allegations of a rigged presidential election.\
\
And according to a confidential security report obtained last month by the Associated Press, the newly appointed national police chief in Honduras helped a cartel leader pull off the delivery of nearly a ton of cocaine.\'a0\
\
"I feel safe here and good here. It's one way I am able to see be here (US) and see my family. I am waiting for some hop," said Alex Garcia, who sits for a portrait on Sunday, Jan. 28, 2018, in Christ Church Maplewood. When Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials ordered Garcia, an undocumented immigrant, to report for deportation, he took sanctuary in this church back in September. Garcia is one of 36 immigrants living in a place of worship in the U.S., according to a report issued this week by Church World Service, an international agency working with refugees and immigrants. The places of worship, which include churches, synagogues and mosques, are located in 26 cities. Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com   "He impressed me with his work he did. He's got a big heart. He helps people who are less fortunate. He's just good for the community," said Corbit Barnet, a private contractor in Poplar Bluff, who visits with Alex Garcia via a webcam live broadcast during a fundraising dinner to keep Garcia from being deported on Tuesday, Feb. 13, 2018, in Poplar Bluff. Friends and supporters held simultaneous fundraisers in Poplar Bluff and Maplewood for the Honduran immigrant, married father of five, who has been living in sanctuary from immigration agents in Christ Church in Maplewood.  "The way I see it, this whole entire nation is made up of immigrants, that's what we pride ourselves on.  Some of the people that want to come to the United States, don't need to be here. And what I mean by that is, is they are just bad people. I do not think, and I would bet my life, that Alex is not a bad person," said Barnet, a Trump supporter. To the right is Rev. Rebecca Turner, who leads the Christ Church in Maplewood. Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com  "It's been a long time. It's a little hard sometimes," said Alex Garcia, who pets his cat Lucy on Wednesday, Feb. 21, 2018, at Christ Church in Maplewood. The married father of five, has been living in sanctuary from immigration agents in at the church since September. Garcia's brought up Lucy to help with the lonely times two weeks ago. "If they say no, I just don't know what I am going to do," said Garcia, referring to upcoming application seeking a stay. "I don't want to go back home (Honduras). I don't want to leave my babies. It would be different if they were all grown up but they need me," he said.  Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com  Carly Garcia and her daughter AriannaLee, 3, wave hello to guests and her husband Alex Garcia gathered at the Christ Church in Maplewood via a webcam live broadcast feed at the beginning of her own fundraising dinner on Tuesday, Feb. 13, 2018, in Poplar Bluff.  Friends and supporters held simultaneous fundraisers in Poplar Bluff and Maplewood for Alex Garcia, the father of five, who has been living in sanctuary from immigration agents in a Christ Church in Maplewood since September. Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com   Regina Barker and her daughter Alicia, 8, buy t-shirts at a dinner to fundraise money for the family of Alex Garcia on Tuesday, Feb. 13, 2018, in Poplar Bluff.   Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com  "We need to get you back home" said John Polasek, who visits with Alex Garcia via a webcam live broadcast during a fundraising dinner to keep Garcia from being deported on Tuesday, Feb. 13, 2018, in Poplar Bluff. Friends and supporters held simultaneous fundraisers in Poplar Bluff and Maplewood for the Honduran immigrant, married father of five, who has been living in sanctuary from immigration agents in Christ Church in Maplewood since September.   Polasek owns the Little Caeser's Pizza in Poplar Bluff and met Garcia, who was part of the construction crew that built the store. "He's just an exceptional person," said Polasek, talking on Garcia's behalf. "He's here and he's good. How about going after some of the bad immigrants," he said.  Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com \
\
Document SLMO000020180225ee2p00066\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b In Shutdown City, the blame game is never-ending
\f1\b0 \
\
By Chuck Raasch, St. Louis Post-Dispatch \
1,321 words\
20 January 2018\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2018, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
WASHINGTON \'95et the blame game commence.\
\
Congress and President Donald Trump\'92 White House veered on Friday toward another collision with futility, like multiple cars sliding in slow motion down a frozen hill, helpless to stop slamming into one another before coming to a stop someplace.\
\
Twitter taunts and sighs of resignation were the order of the day as Washington flirted one more time with becoming Shutdown City at midnight.\
\
\'93ompromise is the essence of democracy,\'94weeted Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., who is one of several Democratic incumbents in a tough political place because of the circumstances. \'93f there ever was a time for a deal maker \'85\'94\
\
The ellipses were intended to lead to Trump, who earlier in the day tried to pin the blame on the Democratic donkey, tweeting that \'93e need more Republican victories in 2018\'94\'97 recognition that the Democrats can block major moves in the Senate because Republicans are nine votes short of the 60 necessary to advance legislation under Senate rules.\
\
That reality, and the way Congress has dealt with it over nearly a decade, had the usually mild-mannered Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., riled up Friday morning. He has long decried Congress\'92nability to pass spending bills, relying on continuing resolutions that simply kick tough decisions down the road for weeks or months at a time.\
\
But he and other Republicans were also crying foul over Senate Democrats\'92ttempts to inject the immigration status of some 800,000 adult Americans brought here illegally as children by their parents into the debate over keeping the government open. These young adults have had special legal protection under the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program instituted by then-President Barack Obama.\
\
\'93 do think that the pattern that we have fallen into for the last eight or 10 years is absolutely outrageous,\'94lunt said of Congress\'92nability to pass spending legislation under regular order. \'93o use the funding of the government every year as some late tactic, where the members of the Senate all don\'92 get a chance to stand up and talk about our priorities on how to spend our money, the fact that we can\'92 get the members of the Senate to debate the appropriations bills is totally unreasonable.\
\
\'93nd I think what is also totally unreasonable is dragging these DACA kids into this fight,\'94lunt said. \'93hether this is intentional or not, this has become a fight about illegal immigration as opposed to having a debate about treating these kids who grew up here like we should treat kids who grew up here.\'94\
\
Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., who has tried for years to get a permanent solution for those now protected by DACA, blamed Trump for forcing it when the president said in September he would give Congress until March 5 to come up with a plan to deal with the legal status of these young adults.\
\
Durbin said that, despite Republican claims that there is more time to deal with the DACA issue, it was urgent for the tens of thousands of young people facing potential limbo, many of them who are in school or early in their working careers.\
\
\'93e don\'92 want to shut down the government,\'94urbin said, but neither does he want to keep kicking the DACA issue down the road.\
\
To which Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said that Democrats were \'93iterally painting everyone in this country into a corner\'94y tying DACA to the debate, and doing it in a way that tries to make Republicans look uncaring, even though there are bipartisan efforts in both Houses to solve the issue.\
\
\'93hey\'92e not holier than thou,\'94atch said of Democrats. \'93hey\'92e more political than thou.\'94\
\
Democratic senators brought \'93rump Shutdown\'94lacards to the Senate floor. Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley, who is running against McCaskill, tweeted that McCaskill \'93eeds to put the partisan politics aside and tell her liberal allies to stop the #SchumerShutdown.\'94\
\
The last was a reference to Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., who blamed the Republicans for crippling the military\'92 ability to plan through Congress\'92nability to come up with anything but short-term budget patches.\
\
McCaskill is one of several Senate Democrats who faced a tough choice. She is up for re-election in a state Trump won big. She could vote with Republicans to keep the government open on their terms, or she could stick with her Democratic colleagues and risk being seen as willing to shut the government down.\
\
But some Republican senators expressed concern about the bill approved Thursday by the House and threatened to vote against it, giving McCaskill potential cover.\
\
And 48 percent of respondents in a new national Washington Post-ABC News poll said they would blame Republicans for the shutdown, 28 percent would blame Democrats and 18 percent said they\'92 blame both sides.\
\
McCaskill tweeted that Democrats weren\'92 running the show.\
\
\'93ever before in the history of this nation has the government been shut down with one party in control of both Congress and the presidency,\'94he tweeted late Friday morning. \'93ever.\'94\
\
That claim, Blunt said, is \'93eedlessly deceptive\'94ith the Senate\'92 60-vote requirement on some major legislation.\
\
\'93s long as you don\'92 have 60 senators,\'94lunt said, \'93ou don\'92 control the Congress.\'94\
\
---\
\
'Making progress - four week extension would be best!' PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP\
\
'Compromise is the essence of democracy. If there ever was a time for a deal maker \'85 SEN. CLAIRE McCASKILL, D-MO.\
\
'I think what is also totally unreasonable is dragging these DACA kids into this fight.' SEN. ROY BLUNT, R-MO.\
\
'We were sent here to govern, not fund the government from month to month or careen from one crisis to the next.' REP. DEBBIE DINGELL, D-MICH.\
\
If the Democrats care so much about illegal immigrant DREAMERS, why didn't they grant them amnesty back in 2009 when they controlled ALL of government?' REP. CLAY HIGGINS, R-LA.\
\
FILE - In this Jan. 10, 2018, file photo, President Donald Trump listens during a meeting in the Oval Office of the White House, in Washington. Casting a cloud over already tenuous negotiations, President Donald Trump said Sunday, Jan. 14, that Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, a program that protects immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children and live here illegally is "probably dead"|and blamed Democrats, days before some government functions would start shutting down unless a deal is reached. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)Senate Finance Committee member Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., questions Alex Azar during a Senate Finance Committee hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, Jan. 9, 2018, to consider Azar's nomination to be Secretary of Health and Human Services. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)FILE - In this Feb. 12, 2015 file photo, Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo. speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington. Incumbent Republican Blunt is facing what some consider to be a surprisingly competitive challenge from Democratic Missouri Secretary of State Jason Kander, but in the August primary, both men are expected to win easily against unknown challengers. (AP Photo/Molly Riley, File)Congresswoman Debbie Dingell is seen during a ceremony for former U.S. Sen. Carl Levin, Monday, April 11, 2016, in Detroit. Naval officials came to Michigan to officially announce that the former senator will have a destroyer named after him. The destroyer is part of the Arleigh Burke class and will be built at Bath Iron Works in Maine. It's expected to enter the fleet in 2020. The Detroit Democrat served in the Senate from 1979 to 2015 and also served as chair of the Senate's Armed Services Committee. (AP Photo/Carlos Osorio)REP. CLAY HIGGINS, R-LA. \
\
Document SLMO000020180120ee1k00066\
\page \
\
\
A&E\

\f2\b C6 \'95T. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH M 1 \'95 UnDAy \'951.19 .2017 A&E: TELEVISION Jean...
\f1\b0 \
\
2,387 words\
19 November 2017\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
C6\
English\
Copyright 2017, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
C6 \'95T. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH M 1 \'95 UnDAy \'951.19 .2017 A&E: TELEVISION Jean Shepherd showed us all the dangers of owning a Red Ryder BB gun, it has aired in reruns every Christmas. \'93 Christmas Story Live!,\'94nspired by the film and the Tony-winning Broadway production, will be broadcast at 6 p.m. Dec. 17. Executive producer Marc Platt made the leap from musical films (\'93a La Land\'94 and Broadway musicals (\'93icked\'94 to his first taste of live television with \'93rease: Live.\'94e\'92 certain \'93 Christmas Story\'94as been so popular because it broke the mold for traditional holiday productions. \'93or years our Christmas movies were sentimental, and they were sort of cozy and warm, and here came this movie that wasn\'92 that,\'94latt says. \'93t was subversive and funny and sort of recognizable that all the family experiences each one of us have. We could relate to it.\
\
 And so in tak- ing it from the stage to the live television event, we\'92e going to first and foremost deliver the humor and the comedy of the movie as it\'92 represented onstage.\'94ut that\'92 just one offering on the holi- day viewing menu. It\'92 impossible to list everything \'97reeform, for example, is booked solid with festive programming for its 25 Days of Christmas, Dec. 1-25 \'97ut here are a few highlights. Christmas classic inspires live show HOLIDAY TV \'95ROM C1 BY LAVANYA RAMANATHAN Washington Post \'93hank you, come again!\'94hat phrase, made famous by \'93he Simpsons,\'94as haunted Hari Kondabolu for nearly 30 years. Though \'93aunted\'94ay be the better word. The Brooklyn-based stand-up come- dian and child of Indian immigrants can\'92 even recall the first time he heard the jeer hurled his way. \'93ids were looking for some angle to make fun of somebody, and you don\'92 know much about Indian people, so what are your options?\'94e muses. In the hit Fox show\'92 sea of yellow- skinned Springfielders, Apu Nahas- apeemapetilon, the Indian-born conve- nience store clerk, stood out for his brown skin. But mostly, Apu imprinted himself on the viewer\'92 psyche with his accent, a clucking singsong that made \'93hank you, come again!\'94 meme before memes existed. At first, it didn\'92 seem so nefarious to Kondabolu, who is now 35. The TV shows of the era didn\'92 \'93ook anything like where I grew up,\'94e says. \'93o being able to see an Indian face, even if it was a cartoon, that\'92 all I wanted: to exist.\'94ut now, Kondabolu, whose comedy album, \'93ainstream American Comic,\'94eached No. 2 on the Billboard comedy charts last year, is examining whether the cartoon immigrant did more harm than good as a representation of Indian- Americans. He\'92 taking on the Slushee-slinging shopkeeper in \'93he Problem With Apu,\'94ebuting Sunday on TruTV. The hourlong documentary includes interviews with actors and comics of South Asian heritage, who discuss not only the cartoon char- acter but also how their lives have been affected by stereotypes of South Asians. Kondabolu, who also is an executive producer of the film, talks with Kal Penn of \'93arold and Kumar\'94ame (he immedi- ately voices his contempt for Apu); \'93as- ter of None\'94tar Aziz Ansari; and actress Whoopi Goldberg, who maintains a collection of racist depictions of African- Americans from a not-so-distant past and quickly begins to see Apu\'92 place in it. The comedian is keenly aware that taking on Apu is akin to dragging \'93he Simpsons\'94ehemoth itself. And that the millions of Americans who have glowing memories of Bart and Co. will bristle at the idea they may have laughed at some- thing racist. But he wants viewers to see how insidi- ous such characterizations can be and how they continue to thrive. CRITIQUING POP CULTURE Kondabolu is bracing for the tidal wave of, \'93h, you\'92e a killjoy, and you hate comedy and you hate \'91he Simpsons\'92ecause you criticize it.\'94\'93hat\'92 not true,\'94e says. \'93 was raised on \'91he Simpsons,\'92nd \'91he Simpsons\'92ritiqued popular culture. So what I\'92 doing is in the tradition of \'91he Simpsons\'92s far as I\'92 concerned.\'94hrough a spokeswoman, \'93he Simp- sons\'94reator Matt Groening and actor Hank Azaria, who voices Apu, declined requests for comment on Kondabolu\'92 film. From the opening credits, the \'93imp- sons\'94orld is full of cues that \'93hings aren\'92 quite normal,\'94ays John Ortved, author of \'93he Simpsons: An Uncensored, Unauthorized History.\'94he animators designed a universe of people who are banana yellow, with blue hair and exaggerated features. \'93hese aren\'92 people who represent humanity, who represent the culture,\'94rtved says. \'93hey\'92e obviously not going for a human look.\'94ut there are exceptions: Dr. Hibbert is clearly African-American; Apu is brown; and a slew of odd characters who turn up from time to time are also clear reminders that race exists, even in \'93he Simpsons.\'94he show may not look like the real world, but its storylines and themes smack of it. Apu has been mistaken for a terrorist, he has revealed that he\'92 an illegal immigrant and has faced the threat of deportation. And he is never without his accent, which isn\'92 exactly traceable to any actual region of India. Apu, says Michael Melamedoff, director of the documentary, arrived on the air at a time when South Asians were becoming more visible in American life \'97 major boom in Asian immigration occurred in the 1980s and \'920s. \'93o of course he comes to life in the guise of a stereotype,\'94elamedoff says. \'93as this kind of race-baiting humor more acceptable in American culture then? One-hundred percent.\'94EEKING DIVERSITY Apu was on the air more than two decades before Kondabolu decided to call the character out. In 2012, Mindy Kaling had just landed her own show, the first starring a woman of South Asian descent, and Kondabolu, then a writer for W. Kamau Bell\'92 FX show \'93otally Biased,\'94et out to explain why her success mattered to others. It meant talking about the biggest Indian character on television up to that point. It meant bringing up Apu. \'93alking about this stuff felt kind of corny. To me, it felt like it had been done to death,\'94ondabolu says. Bell saw it differently. \'93amau said, \'91our community has been talking about this for 20 years. The rest of the country doesn\'92 notice it, doesn\'92 think it\'92 a thing. This is new.\'92\'94ondabolu says his goal isn\'92 to shame the show or demand Apu\'92 erasure. \'93t\'92 already been 30 years, and the impact has already been made,\'94e says. \'93or me it\'92 about getting more diverse roles. It\'92 about writing rooms being more diverse, people actually sharing their own stories as opposed to other people sharing it for them.\'94\'93he Problem With Apu,\'94ays Melam- edoff, whose own family emigrated from Argentina, is about \'93ow we succeed and fail representing minority voices and elevating minority voices so they can rep- resent themselves.\'94\'93 spent a lot of time revisiting Apu episodes,\'94e says. \'93f course, the character has moments of real wit and insight, because the writing team at \'91he Simpsons\'92as great. But a lot of those moments are also blanketed by very cheap jokes that come at the expense of South Asian culture and South Asian experiences. \'93pu, I just can\'92 look at him the same way anymore.\'94AVID SCOTT HOLLOWAY Hari Kondabolu\'92 documentary \'93he Problem With Apu\'94xplores the impact of stereotypical images on those of South Asian descent. \'91HE PROBLEM WITH APU\'92hen \'95 p.m. Sunday Where \'95TruTV More info \'95rutv.com/theproblemwithapu \'93 Charlie Brown Thanksgiving,\'94 p.m. Wednesday, ABC \'95he Peanuts gang celebrates its own version of the holiday. \'93he Thanksgiving Day Parade on CBS,\'94 a.m. Thursday, CBS \'95evin Frazier and Keltie Knight host the telecast of the 91st annual Macy\'92 Thanksgiving Day Parade live from New York. \'93Macy\'92 Thanksgiving Day Parade,\'94 a.m. Thursday, NBC \'95att Lauer, Savannah Guthrie and Al Roker host the broadcast. Telemundo will simulcast the parade in Spanish, with the event hosted by Carlos Ponce, Jessica Carrillo and Karim Mendiburu. \'93rosty the Snowman,\'94 p.m. Friday, CBS \'95rosty\'92 silk hat full of magic has turned him into a musical Christmas legend. \'93anta Claus is Comin\'92o Town,\'94 p.m. Friday, ABC \'95he 1970 Rankin-Bass Productions animated tale features Fred Astaire narrating the tale of Kris Kringle (Mickey Rooney). \'93he Christmas Train,\'94 p.m. Nov. 25, Hallmark Channel \'95 journalist goes on a cross- country train ride at Christmas. Dermot Mulroney stars. \'93MA Country Christmas,\'94 p.m. Nov. 27, ABC \'95eba McEntire hosts the eighth annual event from Nashville\'92 Grand Ole Opry House. \'93ngry Angel,\'94 p.m. Nov. 27, Freeform \'95 young woman (Brenda Song) has been turned into an angel but is stuck on Earth. \'93 Very Pentatonix Christmas,\'94 p.m. Nov. 27, NBC \'95ennifer Hudson and Jay Leno are the special guests. \'93udolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer,\'94 p.m. Nov. 28, CBS \'95url Ives narrates the animated tale based on the popular song of the same name by Johnny Marks. \'93hristmas in Rockefeller Center,\'94 p.m. Nov. 29, NBC \'95he evening includes performances by Brett Eldridge, Jennifer Nettles, Leslie Odom Jr., Pentatonix, Gwen Stefani and the Tenors. \'93 Charlie Brown Christmas,\'94 p.m. Nov. 30, ABC \'95he digitally remastered 1965 special shows Charlie Brown complaining about the materialism he sees everywhere during the Christmas season. \'93loise at Christmastime,\'94:30 a.m. Dec. 1, Freeform \'95loise (Sofia Vassilieva) is warned not to interfere as the Plaza Hotel prepares for a romantic Christmas Eve wedding. \'93im Burton\'92 The Nightmare Before Christmas,\'94 p.m. Dec. 1, Freeform \'95ack Skellington becomes obsessed with bringing Christmas under his control. \'93ational Lampoon\'92 Christmas Vacation,\'94:05 p.m. Dec. 1, Freeform \'95he Griswold family looks to have the most fun-filled old-fashioned family Christmas ever. \'93r. Seuss\'92ow the Grinch Stole Christmas,\'94:10 p.m. Dec. 2, Freeform \'95im Carrey stars as the title character who tries to ruin Christmas for all the Whos of Whoville. \'93he Polar Express,\'940:50 p.m. Dec. 2, Freeform \'95om Hanks and director Robert Zemeckis reunite for the tale of a young boy and the magical train he boards to the North Pole. \'93he Great Christmas Light Fight,\'94 p.m. Dec. 4, ABC \'95his is the fifth season of the competition show that looks at the most spectacular and over-the-top Christmas displays in America. \'93hrek the Halls,\'94 p.m. Dec. 7, ABC \'95hrek doesn\'92 have the holiday spirit, but for the sake of Fiona and the kids, he tries to get into the spirit of things as only an ogre can. \'93Disney Prep & Landing,\'94:30 p.m. Dec. 14, ABC \'95n elf named Wayne is upset when he doesn\'92 receive an expected promotion to be the Director of Naughty List Intelligence. \'93 Want a Dog for Christmas, Charlie Brown,\'94 p.m. Dec. 16, ABC \'95erun, the younger brother of Linus and Lucy, gets Snoopy to invite his canine brother, Spike, for a visit. \'93hristmas With the Kranks,\'940:55 p.m. Dec. 16, Freeform \'95 decision to skip Christmas changes when a couple\'92 grown daughter decides at the last minute to come home for the holiday. Tim Allen and Jamie Lee Curtis star. \'93he Sound of Music,\'94 p.m. Dec. 17, ABC \'95he Oscar- winning classic features the songs \'93delweiss,\'94\'93y Favorite Things\'94nd \'93limb Every Mountain.\'94ulie Andrews stars. \'93ecorating Disney: Holiday Magic,\'94 p.m. Dec. 18, Freeform \'95n inside look at how holiday magic is created throughout Disney Destinations. \'93randma Got Run Over by a Reindeer,\'94 a.m. Dec. 21, Freeform \'95oliday special loosely based on the hit song. \'93eppa Pig: Father Christmas,\'941:30 a.m. Dec. 22, Nickelodeon \'95eppa and the rest of her playgroup are excited to put on a big Christmas show. \'93 Love Lucy Christmas Special,\'94 p.m. Dec. 22, CBS \'95he new one-hour special features two back-to-back colorized episodes of the classic series: \'93he Christmas Episode\'94nd \'93he Fashion Show.\'94\'93he Dick Van Dyke Show \'97ow in Living Color!,\'94 p.m. Dec. 22, CBS \'95he two newly colorized back-to-back episodes were selected by series creator Carl Reiner. They include \'93y Blonde-Haired Brunette\'94nd \'93ctober Eve.\'94\'93hristmas Getaway,\'94 p.m. Dec. 23, Hallmark Channel \'95 travel writer finds herself double booked for the holidays. \'93 Christmas Story,\'941 p.m. Dec. 24, TCM \'95he holiday film will run continuously until 7 p.m. Dec. 25. \'93t\'92 a Wonderful Life,\'94 p.m. Dec. 24, NBC \'95immy Stewart stars in the 1946 Frank Capra classic about a man who doesn\'92 realize how he\'92 changed lives for the better. \'93Disney Parks Magical Christmas Celebration,\'94 a.m. Dec. 25, ABC \'95osts Julianne Hough and Nick Lachey take viewers on a ride down Main Street, U.S.A., and beyond. \'93appy New Year, Charlie Brown,\'94 p.m. Dec. 26, ABC \'95he Peanuts gang is ringing in 1986, and Marcie and Peppermint Patty are throwing a big New Year\'92 Eve bash. COMIC LOVES \'91IMPSONS\'92UT SEES HARM IN APU SUBMIT YOUR PHOTOS THROUGH SUNDAY, NOV. 26 STLtoday.com/contests ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH Last year, it was a striking shot of a boat on Pomme de Terre Lake in Hermitage, Mo., that grabbed our attention as we judged our annual travel photo contest. The year before, a funny photo of horses in Sand Wash Basin, Colo. This year, the winner of the Post-Dispatch\'92 annual travel photo contest could be your photo! Winners will be announced and published Dec. 24 in the STL Life section, and online at STLtoday.com. \'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6017 022017 02 \'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a67 02 \'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a67 02 \'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6\'a6RAVEL PHOTO OTO HP LEVARTCONTESTTSE NT OC\
\
Document SLMO000020171128edbj000a9\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Letters to the editor, Feb. 11
\f1\b0 \
\
1,247 words\
11 February 2017\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A10\
English\
Copyright 2017, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
Israel has right to keep settlements as a buffer\
\
The article \'93sraeli law legalizes thousands of West Bank settlement homes\'94Feb. 7) by Tia Goldenberg of The Associated Press says the Jewish West Bank settlements are unlawful and states many critics think they are thefts of Palestinian lands.\
\
I am amazed there are so many articles like this saying Israel gained control of the West Bank, Gaza and Sinai during the 1967 Mideast War but don\'92 cover the reasons for the war.\
\
It started when Egypt, Syria and Jordan attempted to invade and destroy Israel in compliance and cooperation with the Palestinians. Israel won and occupied the West Bank, Gaza and the Sinai as buffer areas against further attempted invasion routes. Earlier, in 1948, and later, in 1973, there were failed invasions against Israel by Arab states as well.\
\
Israel has every right to hold these areas as expansion and buffers against possible future attacks by the Arabs and the Palestine Liberation Organization. Small wonder Israel wants to hold onto these settlements and buffer zones.\
\
Frederick C. Busse \'95eldon Spring\
\
Trump\'92 statements erode confidence in the judicial branch\
\
President Donald Trump took an oath to \'93reserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.\'94owever, he is undermining our rule of law. He is eroding the First Amendment by repeatedly calling reputable news agencies \'93ailing\'94r \'93ishonest,\'94nd by publicly favoring Christianity over other religions. He is undermining our reputation in the free world by publicly implying that we are \'93illers.\'94\
\
Most frighteningly, he is now eroding the public\'92 confidence in the judicial branch of the United States by tweeting that the federal judiciary is staffed by \'93o-called\'94udges. President Trump is trying to mislead the public into believing that the judiciary does not matter. He is trying to eliminate constitutional checks and balances. President Trump is telling the world that only his decisions control.\
\
President Trump needs to realize that words matter. Every time he speaks to undermine our rule of law, he is placing doubt in the minds of Americans and people throughout the world. He is not preserving, protecting or defending our Constitution.\
\
Lynn Meehan \'95dwardsville\
\
Democrats embarrass themselves at DeVos hearing\
\
\'93ophomoric\'94s the term that often comes to my mind when I read a column by Dana Milbank, but his column (\'93he grizzly truth: Trump\'92 competence problems are bigger than DeVos,\'94eb. 8) was more sophomoric than ever.\
\
Having watched the Senate hearings with secretary of education nominee Betsy DeVos, I took her comment about guns in schools, \'93o protect from potential grizzlies,\'94s a humorous reference to the Wyoming senator\'92 point that some schools in his state have only one teacher and a few students \'97n other words, one size doesn\'92 fit all and local circumstances should determine some decisions.\
\
In the exchange about proficiency and growth, Sen. Al Franken of Minnesota was exceedingly rude in jumping to a negative conclusion when DeVos seemed to be waiting for clarification of his question. A Rhode Island senator identified her with \'93unk science\'94ecause some of her family members apparently contributed to organizations that questioned climate change, supported intelligent design versus some forms of evolutionary theory, or believed in conversion therapy for some gay people who desire change. She replied that she believes in critical thinking \'97hich scientists claim to support against dogma, whether scientific, philosophic or religious.\
\
Sens. Elizabeth Warren, Al Franken and Charles Schumer have called DeVos\'92erformance embarrassing. To me, the performance of the Democratic senators was the embarrassing part of the hearings.\
\
William S. Barker \'95ebster Groves\
\
Pay illegal immigrants to return to their homeland\
\
Both American political parties have failed to prevent aliens from unlawfully entering our country. There is a simple solution that could dramatically reduce the number of illegal immigrants in our nation.\
\
Congress should establish a program that pays these illegal immigrants to return to their homelands, as follows:\
\
The enabling legislation authorizes the creation of a number of regional processing centers. These centers would have two functions: transportation capabilities and adjudicatory authority. Any illegal immigrant can sign in to a processing center. The illegal immigrant immediately consents to participate in a summary legal proceeding that: (1) admits both illegal entry and lack of legal American citizenship; (2) consents to repatriation to their homeland; (3) consents to summary, administrative deportation upon any future unlawful re-entry into the U.S.\
\
As a part of this process, the fingerprints and optical identification scans of each immigrant are entered into a federal database. The immigrant then appears before a federal magistrate, and the summary legal proceeding is entered as a binding federal adjudication, which confirms the admissions made by the immigrant and orders the immigrant\'92 return to his homeland.\
\
Within hours after entry of this order, the immigrant is flown or bused to the national capital of his homeland. Upon arrival, adult immigrants are paid $10,000 in cash as compensation for leaving the United States. Immigrants with minor children would receive an additional $2,500 for each repatriated minor child.\
\
Chris Tabing \'95oulterville, Ill.\
\
Credibility of commentary writer can be questioned\
\
In attacking my organization\'92 annually well-documented \'93udicial Hellholes\'94eport, which recently ranked St. Louis as the nation\'92 least fair civil court jurisdiction and criticized what we believe are scientifically groundless verdicts against makers of talcum powder, personal injury lawyer Roger Denton claimed to have no involvement in litigation against one of those makers (\'93on\'92 fall for corporate lobbyists\'92\'91udicial hellhole\'92laim,\'94eb. 7). But documents I provided to the Post-Dispatch indicate that he is very much involved in such litigation, so his credibility can fairly be questioned.\
\
Also questioned by a New Jersey judge last summer was the soundness of testimony offered by the same expert witnesses who\'92e been winning gigantic, multimillion-dollar verdicts in St. Louis by alleging that talcum powder use causes ovarian cancer. The Garden State judge found their testimony unsupportable and dismissed those talc cases.\
\
But back in St. Louis, where an antiquated standard for expert testimony is less exacting than that in all federal courts and 40 state court systems, Denton\'92 fellow trial lawyers have spent millions on misleading TV commercials that have influenced potential jurors while they line up hundreds of out-of-state talc clients who\'92l avail themselves of precious court resources provided by Missouri taxpayers.\
\
Taxpayers who think Missouri\'92 courts should primarily serve Missourians may wish to voice their concerns to lawmakers in Jefferson City as a number of civil justice reform bills are now being considered.\
\
Darren McKinney \'95ashington, D.C. Director of communications, American Tort Reform Association\
\
> Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters\
\
Postcard from Mound City by Dan Martin \'95t. Louis Post-Dispatch \'95martin@post-dispatch.com - How Good Are You At Predicting The Future?  1. HOW MANY billions of jobs will be created in Missouri SPECIFICALLY due to right-to-work? (Please use as many extra sheets as needed.)  (Man: "SHOW ME. Starting now.") YOUR PREDICTION _____  2. HOW MANY nursing home seniors will be on the street due to Gov. Greitens' Medicaid budget cuts? YOUR PREDICTION _____  3. HOW MANY back to back national championships will Mizzou win AFTER they install their new endzone seating complex? (MU fan: "New seats will make the team play better!) YOUR PREDICTION _____  Clip out and save and revisit in 2021!!! \
\
Document SLMO000020170212ed2b0004s\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Letters to the editor, Nov. 20
\f1\b0 \
\
1,120 words\
20 November 2016\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A18\
English\
Copyright 2016, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
Case shows why public defender system deserves funding\
\
The article \'93istaken identity\'94Nov. 14) about the arrest, incarceration and release of Jadda Kennedy on a murder charge for which she should have never been arrested made me realize once more how crucial Missouri\'92 public defender system is to justice. In recent years we have failed over and over to fund it adequately, often with tragic results.\
\
According to the article, police and prosecutors failed to act on the DNA evidence that months ago linked another woman to the crime, even after a key witness retracted her identification of Kennedy as unintentionally erroneous.\
\
Many mistakes were made in this case \'97o doubt honest if careless mistakes. There was never any physical evidence in the case linking her to the crime, but there was a failure to investigate new evidence that surfaced. Her public defender, Erika Wurst, remained involved and acted on a piece of evidence emailed by an investigator to prosecutors.\
\
Over the last few years, as the public defender\'92 office has suffered budget cuts and impossibly burdensome caseloads, it seems obvious that Missouri needs to correct this problem quickly. Sometimes the only thing standing between an innocent person being incarcerated for years or life is a vigilant public defender. We need to pay these lawyers for their service, assign them reasonable case loads and acknowledge our debt to them.\
\
I hope Governor-elect Eric Greitens will take action to correct this injustice, because it hasn\'92 happened under Gov. Jay Nixon\'92 watch.\
\
Ann Mandelstamm \'95t. Louis\
\
The press failed its duty to inform the electorate\
\
Of the many factors that resulted in Donald Trump being elected president, one of the biggest has to be his treatment by the press.\
\
I don\'92 mind so much that they gave him coverage for every foul or idiotic thing he said. It\'92 hard to deny that it was news that a presidential candidate said something foul or idiotic. But there should be a method where serious journalists take a newsworthy item and put it into context. There should be an equivalent to the Hippocratic Oath for journalists: not only to \'93irst, do no harm\'94ut to compare and contrast the subject of their reportage.\
\
The actions of the press were nothing short of negligent in this regard. The phrase false equivalency was bandied about a lot, but it is readily evident in the coverage. The press thought that if they said something bad about Trump, then they had to say something bad about Hillary Clinton, and that made if fair and balanced. Nothing could be further from the truth.\
\
The press absolutely failed to compare and contrast. We might have had an informed electorate that would have not made our democracy the butt of the world\'92 ridicule. There was entirely too little of that kind of responsible journalism. It wasn\'92 nonexistent, but pretty damn close.\
\
This mess isn\'92 entirely journalists\'92ault, but a major part of it is. They owe it to their fellow citizens to help clean it up.\
\
Rich Brown \'95emay\
\
Media lose their credibility but continue in same direction\
\
I think the real losers in the presidential election were the all-knowing media networks. I took particular pleasure watching the faces of the newscasters change from merriment to absolute horror as the candidate they claimed could never win took the lead. So much for fair and balanced reporting.\
\
But now, instead of admitting they blew it, they continue to tell us they were right. E.J. Dionne fairly claimed recently that Hillary Clinton was the winner (\'93gainst Trumpian triumphalism,\'94ov. 15). Breathlessly reporting, he told us that Clinton nearly won Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. That counts.\
\
As far as the media heads coming to grips with reality, it won\'92 happen. With the map of America pretty much blood red except for coastal areas and only six states now completely controlled by Democrats, look for the media to continue the same lock-step march that just lost them their credibility.\
\
Rich Iezzi \'95t. Louis\
\
Tough but fair immigration policy could benefit GOP\
\
Throughout his campaign, Donald Trump used classic authoritarian rhetoric, to wit, powerful people telling less powerful people that their problems are caused by the least powerful people. In this case, the least powerful are Latino and Muslim immigrants. What delicious irony. The party of personal responsibility, the party that condemns others for playing the race card, plays the race card to excuse middle-class whites from responsibility for their own situation.\
\
There is a broad consensus that illegal workers do not lower wages or take jobs from native workers. Business leaders know that illegal immigrant workers constitute a significant benefit to the economy. Illegals pay more in taxes than they consume in government services. There is a broad consensus among experts that the violent crime rates among illegals are not significantly different than among natives.\
\
The incoming administration sits on the horns of a dilemma: honor or renege on the pledge to deport millions of people. Appease supporters and damage the economy, or protect the economy and anger supporters?\
\
Mass deportation is a fool\'92 errand. There is no practical way to do it, it would be a public relations nightmare, and it would not achieve the targeted results. Trump\'92 plan to start with deporting dangerous criminals is a slightly softer version of President Obama\'92 policy. Does Trump expect us to believe that authorities have identified millions of dangerous illegal criminals who have not been arrested?\
\
There is a better strategy. Trump should consider a path to citizenship, or legal residence, to illegals \'97wo-thirds of whom have been in the country for more than 10 years. The Latino and Muslim communities have been socially conservative for many years. A tough but fair resolution of the immigration issue would have a positive impact for the Republican Party.\
\
Tom Knaup \'95ebster Groves\
\
Perpetrator of vandalism needs to be identified\
\
In 20 percent of families in Town and Country, English is the second language. I am close to some of the people in these families. We enjoy robust, exhilarating, stimulating friendships filled with happy times.\
\
I share Sudhir Avirneni\'92 hope that the scratching of the word \'93rump\'94n his car was the act of some hapless youth. Nonetheless, action has its consequences. The perpetrator needs to be identified to be instructed that the deed reflects negatively on any objective. Cost of damage must be reimbursed. Community service is called for.\
\
Monetary reward can be effective in finding the irresponsible individual.\
\
Mariette Palmer \'95own and Country\
\
> Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters\
\
Document SLMO000020161121ecbk0000m\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Letters to the editor, July 1
\f1\b0 \
\
1,207 words\
1 July 2016\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A12\
English\
Copyright 2016, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
Public doesn\'92 need the firepower of assault weapons\
\
I wonder, would our forefathers have ratified the Second Amendment as they did had their firearms of 1791 been as sophisticated as today\'92? How many times a minute can a musket be fired? How many times a minute can today\'92 assault weapons be fired?\
\
I own both pistols and rifles and I will never surrender them ... nor will I ever own an assault rifle or high-capacity firearm. I trust our armed services and our police force in those situations that call for firepower of assault weapons.\
\
Very few killings are justified. Killings with assault weapons by unauthorized people are never justified. There is no excuse for the carnage that happened at Sandy Hook, Orlando, etc. Our politicians need to work together to ban assault weapons from the public and work toward a plan to keep traditional firearms out of the hands of those who are unstable: criminals, terrorists, etc.\
\
If we are going to continue to hide behind the Second Amendment and not write laws that can make the amendment work in the 21st century, then let\'92 send our do-nothing politicians home and use their salary and benefits to pay toward our national debt.\
\
If the politicians don\'92 act to change the laws on assault weapons and if the public allows them to continue their inaction, will your child be included in the next Sandy Hook ... or will you or someone you love be one of those in the next Orlando? With assault weapons available to anyone who has the money to purchase one, it will happen again.\
\
George Ramsey \'95ildwood\
\
\'91mmigrant\'92nd \'91illegal immigrant\'92ren\'92 interchangeable\
\
Let me get this straight: By the grace of the U.S. Constitution, a child born in the U.S. of illegal immigrant parents is automatically a U.S. citizen, even though the only reason he or she was born here is because his/her parents entered the country illegally. And now the fact of that child\'92 citizenship is supposed to be a reason not to deport the illegal immigrant parents? What kind of a circular argument is that?\
\
As for the argument against \'93plitting up the family\'94 The parents made a choice to enter the country illegally; unlike African-Americans, they were not brought here as slaves. It is also their choice if they want to keep their family together \'97y moving their entire family back to their home country, which is where they should have stayed in the first place.\
\
One final point: The Democrats like to use the words \'93mmigrant\'94nd \'93illegal immigrant\'94nterchangeably. They are not. Being against granting amnesty to illegal immigrants/aliens does not mean you are anti-immigration. In fact, I would think that the people who would be most adamant against granting amnesty would be the immigrants who came here legally. They must feel like suckers for going to all of the time and trouble to come here legally, and now watch as people advocate granting amnesty to all of the people who decided to ignore the rules.\
\
Brian Geurin \'95hrewsbury\
\
Playing the game of heinous comparisons\
\
So doctrinaire liberal columnist Leonard Pitts Jr. thinks it\'92 perfectly fine to name-call Donald Trump as Hitler (\'93es, Hitler,\'94une 21). In fact, he implies that it\'92 almost a moral responsibility to do so.\
\
I\'92 no fan of Trump. It\'92 seriously depressing that he is very likely to be the Republican nominee for president. The only worse person for the job I can think of is the unaccomplished, lying and thoroughly corrupt Hillary Clinton. But if heinous comparisons is Pitts\'92ame, I\'92 like to play.\
\
For starters, how about Pitts himself? Perhaps he\'92 best thought of as an old-style employee of Pravda, the state-owned propaganda vehicle of the former Soviet Union. I wonder if Pitts has ever strayed from Democratic Party talking points in his columns?\
\
And what of Clinton? Who is the appropriate comparison? Imelda Marcos, first lady to the late Philippines dictator Ferdinand Marcos, comes to mind. She narrowly escaped criminal charges by legal authorities on a regular basis, and she left government service fabulously wealthy.\
\
Larry O\'92eill \'95irkwood\
\
Disabled people have avenues to become politically active\
\
In every major election cycle, the focus inevitably turns to demographics, and which minority populations the various candidates must court in order to win their elections. However, the largest minority group in the United States rarely gets mentioned; people with disabilities make up 16.5 percent of the population between ages 21 and 64, and 51.8 percent of people over 65. Because people with disabilities come from diverse ethnicities, religions and socioeconomic backgrounds, they are rarely considered as a single voting bloc.\
\
This ignores the reality that millions of people with disabilities share an interest in ensuring that they receive adequate community support services, access to needed programs and therapies, and consistent, affordable health care. The availability of all those programs and services is determined almost entirely by state and federal laws. The ability to influence that legislation is imperative to the quality of life for people with disabilities. Voting is the first step.\
\
I encourage anyone out there with a disability to become active in the political system. If you have not yet registered to vote, you can do it online, at the secretary of state\'92 website, sos.mo.gov. If you don\'92 have a computer, you can call the secretary of state\'92 office, 800-669-8683, for information on your local election office.\
\
If you live in St. Charles, Lincoln or Warren counties, you can call the Delta Center for Independent Living at 636-926-8761 to find other ways to become politically involved. If you live in St. Louis city or county, call Paraquad at 314-289-4200.\
\
Whatever you do, do something.\
\
Lisa Ezeamii \'95t. Peters\
\
Advocacy coordinator, Delta Center for Independent Living\
\
Regulations make it harder to donate blood\
\
I have been a regular, consistent blood donor at Mercy Hospital St. Louis for over a decade. I am there at least once if not twice a month. I recognize the staff workers and they recognize me. I derive no benefit for taking time out of my busy life to perform this life-extending service. It is an honor to be able to do so.\
\
However, recent Food and Drug Administration regulations seem designed to discourage people like me from continuing this vital service. I have to show a photo ID every time I donate. My donor file is inches thick due to the number of times I have given. Yet, I have to prove who I am each time I walk through the door.\
\
Is the FDA\'92 goal to make it harder and more annoying for volunteers? These are the kinds of actions that deter people who are freely giving their time from participating. I can pay the Transportation Security Administration $85 to bypass security at the airport. Why must I go through all of these hoops to donate platelets?\
\
Betty O\'92ea \'95rontenac\
\
Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters\
\
Document SLMO000020160701ec7100069\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Nation briefs
\f1\b0 \
\
From news services \
464 words\
14 May 2016\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Final\
A11\
English\
Copyright 2016, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved. \
\
Phoenix\'92 Arpaio in contempt of court\
\
A judge found the longtime sheriff of metro Phoenix in contempt of court Friday for disobeying his orders in a racial profiling case, bringing the lawman who calls himself \'93merica\'92 Toughest Sheriff\'94 step closer to a potential criminal contempt case that could expose him to fines and even jail time.\
\
The ruling Friday marked one of the biggest legal defeats in the six-term career of Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who is known for cracking down on illegal immigration, and was expected to lead to greater court oversight of his office. A hearing will be held May 31 to examine whether he will face a criminal contempt case.\
\
Civilian agency will replace Chicago police review board \'95hicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel is replacing the city\'92 Independent Police Review Authority with a civilian agency. The Independent Police Review Authority has been criticized for slow investigations of complaints that seldom led to discipline.\
\
Catholic nuns OK transgender teacher \'95 teacher who came out as a transgender man at a Catholic high school in San Francisco has been allowed by the nuns that run the school to keep his job. An order of the Sisters of Mercy announced its support for Gabriel Bodenheimer, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.\
\
\'93his is significant for us; we did not take this lightly,\'94aid Sister Laura Reicks, president of the 16-state region of the Sisters of Mercy West Midwest Community. \'93e feel because of our values, the choice was this, but that didn\'92 mean it was easy.\'94\
\
3 in truck die as driver cuts in front of train \'95hree men in a pickup died Friday north of Fresno, Calif., when the driver pulled in front of a speeding Amtrak passenger train, splitting the truck in two but causing no serious injuries to the train\'92 passengers. The train, carrying 205 passengers, was traveling at up to 80 mph. The two passengers were thrown from the truck.\
\
Ex-prep school official may have assaulted boy \'95 former admissions officer at an elite prep school in New Hampshire who went on to become a Teacher of the Year at another school has surrendered to authorities to face allegations he sexually assaulted a teenage boy decades ago. Arthur Peekel is at least the third staff member this year to be accused of sexual misconduct at Phillips Exeter Academy, a coed school for students in grades 9 to 12.\
\
Alleged plan for immigrant raids worries advocates \'95mmigrant advocacy groups condemned reported plans by the government to launch a new series of raids against illegal immigrant families from Central America. Such an effort, the groups said, would send panic through Latino communities and unfairly target victims of violence and poverty.\
\
Document SLMO000020160515ec5e000eb\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Harvard junior who took mom to Mexico can return
\f1\b0 \
\
By LAURA WIDES-MUNOZ and PETER ORSI, Associated Press  \
741 words\
15 October 2014\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Online\
A13\
English\
Copyright 2014, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  \
\
LOS REYES LA PAZ, Mexico \'95 Harvard University student stuck in Mexico for months after breaking an immigration rule was told Tuesday that he will be allowed to return home to the United States.\
\
The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service had declared that Dario Guerrero Meneses, an illegal immigrant, in effect deported himself when he crossed the border without permission to accompany his dying mother to clinics in Mexico offering alternative treatments to cancer patients.\
\
His mother died in August, and the agency denied Guerrero\'92 initial attempts to return home to his remaining family in California.\
\
But only hours after The Associated Press reported on his predicament Tuesday, the agency sent Guerrero a letter through his attorney saying he had been granted humanitarian parole and will be allowed to return after all.\
\
\'93h, my God. I don\'92 know. I feel good!\'94uerrero said as the news brought tears of joy to his aunts and cousins.\
\
This parole is temporary. It lasts for two years and does not give him legal residency, let alone a clear path to U.S. citizenship.\
\
Guerrero, who was brought from Mexico to California by his parents at age 2 and learned of his illegal status only as a young adult, was one of hundreds of thousands of young people granted a reprieve from deportation in 2012 by the administration of President Barack Obama.\
\
\'93he U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service did a great thing just a few minutes ago,\'94is attorney, Alan Klein, said. \'93e should be back in America in a few days.\'94\
\
Klein added, \'93e knew that he could possibly give up his right to be here so he could take care of his mother. He\'92 the reason we have immigration, and he\'92 the reason we have a Statue of Liberty because he is what we want here.\'94\
\
Immigrants in Guerrero\'92 situation aren\'92 allowed to leave the U.S. without government approval, and Guerrero tried to get it. He said he applied through the normal process for travel permission, and then waited a month and a half for a response as his mother\'92 life ebbed away. He twice submitted requests for fast-track handling and was told to more fully document his mother\'92 condition. He could have tried to plead his case in person but left instead.\
\
\'93y mom had a lot of ups and downs,\'94e said. \'93he decision to actually leave was made overnight.\'94\
\
Advocates say traveling should be made easier for immigrants who have lived in the U.S. for many years.\
\
In this Friday, Oct. 3, 2014 photo, Dario Guerrero stands for a portrait at his grandparents' home in the outskirts of Mexico City. Guerrero, a Harvard University junior, accompanied his dying mother to Mexico without government permission, and is now unable to return to the United States. (AP Photo/Dario Lopez-Mills)  In this Friday, Oct. 3, 2014 photo, Dario Guerrero, center, poses for a portrait with his grandparents Dario Guerrero Garrido and Crescencia Garcia Vazquez at their home in the outskirts of Mexico City. Guerrero, a Harvard University junior, accompanied his dying mother to Mexico without government permission, and is now unable to return to the United States. (AP Photo/Dario Lopez-Mills)  In this Friday, Oct. 3, 2014 photo, Dario Guerrero stands for a portrait on the rooftop of his grandparents' home in the outskirts of Mexico City. Guerrero, a Harvard University junior, accompanied his dying mother to Mexico without government permission, and is now unable to return to the United States. (AP Photo/Dario Lopez-Mills)  In this Friday, Oct. 3, 2014 photo, Dario Guerrero sits for a portrait in his bedroom with a picture of his late mother, at his grandparents' home on the outskirts of Mexico City. Guerrero, a Harvard University junior, accompanied his dying mother to Mexico without government permission, and is now unable to return to the United States. (AP Photo/Dario Lopez-Mills)  In this Friday, Oct. 3, 2014 photo, film student Dario Guerrero records his surroundings with a video camera on the rooftop of his grandparents' home in the outskirts of Mexico City. Guerrero, a Harvard University junior, accompanied his dying mother to Mexico without government permission, and is now unable to return to the United States. (AP Photo/Dario Lopez-Mills)  \
\
Document SLMO000020141015eaaf0008t\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Letters to the editor, Aug. 7
\f1\b0 \
\
1,201 words\
7 August 2014\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Online\
A14\
English\
Copyright 2014, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  \
\
Cardinals Nation is not made up only of Christians\
\
Our country is a multi-ethnic, multi-racial and multi-religious (including non-believers) society. Cardinals Nation is a national phenomenon (more so than most major league baseball clubs), made up of all of these elements.\
\
The fact that the Cardinals organization sees the need to highlight Christianity, using a dedicated event, is not in keeping with America\'92 established \'93quality for all\'94pproach to the religious rights of citizens. In fact, the Christian Family Day event serves to isolate many non-Christian fans and give them a second-class status. Why not hold family day events for each religion represented in America (admittedly a difficult approach to orchestrate); or even better, hold a \'93on-Denominational Religious Day.\'94\
\
I will admit that Christianity is the dominant religion in Missouri and Southern Illinois; but that fact does not entitle the Cardinals to give Christians a special status. We are all Americans, and we are supposed to be better than that.\
\
Paul Summers \'95hesterfield\
\
Biases and mistakes in coverage of rally\
\
I am requesting a revision of Margaret Gillerman\'92 \'93ival rallies on Israel and Gaza draw 600 to Clayton\'94Aug. 4), based on biases and mistakes.\
\
I participated in Sunday\'92 rally protesting the illegal occupation and U.S.-funded Israeli bombings and military action that have killed more than 1,800 Palestinians. For me, it is not an issue of religion or politics; it is an issue of humanity.\
\
Though this rally was organized first, your article emphasized the reactionary pro-Israel rally through headlining photos, title and content. Ms. Gillerman included quotes only from police and Israel supporters and strategically censored pro-Palestine sign slogans, including \'93ot another nickel; not another dime, no more money for Israel\'85\'94eaving out \'93srael\'92 crime,\'94 crucial part of the message.\
\
The article dismisses the large number of non-Muslim participants like myself protesting our U.S. tax dollars funding human rights abuses and massacre of the Palestinian people, and suggests that the rallies drew similar participation, when in reality the pro-Palestine rally drew a significantly larger attendance.\
\
I request that you make necessary revisions, publish an apology and take your mistakes into consideration for future coverage. We cannot be informed educated citizens with biased and inaccurate journalism.\
\
Stephanie Co \'95t. Louis\
\
Choices are few in border crossings of children\
\
I\'92e been listening to the outrage about illegal immigrant children crossing our borders. I\'92e also noticed that nobody is offering viable solutions, and the crackpots accusing small starving children of being Godless criminals, terrorists or drug smugglers have gone into overdrive.\
\
What it boils down to is we can\'92 shoot them, as Rick Perry and some of my right-wing acquaintances hint at nor can we send them back to their respective countries without assurances they\'92l be safe.\
\
Do we create internment camps as we did during WWII? What would that cost the taxpayers and what would it do to the children looking out from behind tall fences?\
\
If we want to stop illegal immigrants crossing our Southern border, we\'92l have to duplicate another Berlin wall from the Gulf to the Pacific, patrol it with armed soldiers, tanks and aircraft and install enough seismographs to warn us of tunnel digging \'85nd it still might not work. We also can\'92 afford it if we\'92e to continue being the police department of the Middle East.\
\
If the complainers want to stop the influx of these children, there are two choices: Either go find their parents and support them or shut up about it.\
\
Joe Morice \'95\'92allon, Mo.\
\
Private charities may be a key in immigration crisis\
\
The child immigration crisis requires some immediate attention. Most proposals lean on the government to solve the problem, but only to stir up objections. The first step is to solve the housing aspect. This can be accomplished in a rewarding way by instilling non-governmental involvement using private charities.\
\
This approach may not only reduce the need to increase taxes but also eliminates the need to address a crisis for political reasons. The next step requires the government to focus on solving the more long-run aspect of the problem.\
\
Howard B. Baltz \'95Town and Country\
\
Should bike owners have to pay personal property tax?\
\
Tony Messenger\'92 commentary (\'93ear Mayor: Never hit a bike,\'94ug. 1), closes by saying no matter what the bicyclists do, we drivers should just stay calm. It is my understanding that bicyclists are to obey the same laws/rules as the drivers of vehicles are required to do.\
\
Like Sunset Hills Mayor Mark Furrer, I have observed on numerous occasions bicyclists ignoring stop signs, making U-turns without notice and, the biggest problem, riding two or three abreast causing traffic backups. Mason Ridge and Weidman Road are great examples of this, and these are just the tip of iceberg.\
\
The bicyclist in the article indicated that he had a $12,000 bike. If I have a $12,000 vehicle/motorcycle, I am required to license it, insure it and pay personal property tax on it. Perhaps this should apply to bicyclists, too, as they are so ready to share the roads.\
\
James C. Mason \'95anchester\
\
Poor judgment on placement of display ad for weapons\
\
In the Community section of the weekend Post-Dispatch, as we were reading about children in need and voting, we turned to see the Tower Grove Park walking trail and on the facing page were jolted by a full page ad for Mid America Arms!?\
\
Half a dozen hand guns, Fat Pack ammo magazines, silencers, night sights and knives are hawked. Is our community newspaper so desperate for ad revenue that common sense is set aside? Might as well run this weaponry ad with reports of shootings and gunplay on our streets. Perhaps \'93ports\'94ould be more fitting.\
\
In any case, is it too much to expect better judgment on the part of the Post-Dispatch? Please.\
\
Ron Pohle \'95ehlville\
\
Money for Iron Dome but no fence\
\
Why is it that most politicians of both parties have no problem subsidizing the Iron Dome to protect Israel from enemy air attacks with billions of dollars in taxpayer money but claim they haven\'92 the funds to build a fence to protect our Southern border?\
\
Why do law abiding citizens get rousted by TSA workers at virtually all major U.S. airports, but our government officials don\'92 enforce immigration laws currently on the books?\
\
What about the continuous and warrantless eavesdropping by the NSA of our email-cellphone conversations and ubiquitous electronic surveillance with cameras everywhere?\
\
Also, what about the significant militarization of local law enforcement and why have numerous federal agencies purchased billions of rounds of hollow point ammunition? It seems to me that since 9/11 , average Americans are viewed as criminals by our tyrannical government. What are the people running our government really afraid of?\
\
George W. Hoeltje \'95t. James, Mo.\
\
Editorial Cartoon by Pat Bagley \'95he Salt Lake Tribune - A lazy, couch potato 113th Congress: "Yeah, I could use a vacation."  \
\
Document SLMO000020140807ea870006p\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Letters to the editor, April 8
\f1\b0 \
\
1,350 words\
8 April 2013\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Online\
A9\
English\
Copyright 2013, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
Tax eliminations, not just cuts, would help Missouri more\
\
Amy Blouin\'92 April 3 commentary (\'93rresponsible tax cuts will undermine Missouri\'92 economy\'94 is not the first Parade of Horribles that the Missouri Budget Project has promoted about the prospect of tax reform in Missouri. To the contrary, I don\'92 think the tax cuts being debated at the Capitol go far enough. Tax cuts help, and Senate Bill 26 is a step in the right direction. But tax eliminations would help more.\
\
Notably, the corporate income tax could be eliminated by getting rid of state development tax credits dollar for dollar \'97redits that have bled Missouri\'92 budgets for years, with disappointing results. The literature is clear: Income taxes harm growth. Moreover, our state tax incentives have a terrible track record. Our state could leverage these two policy negatives against each other to make a powerful, positive step toward pro-growth tax reform in Missouri.\
\
Missouri needs tax triage, not the sort of economic bed rest that Blouin substantively advocates for in her piece. The corporate income tax would be a great place to start \'85ut legislators should not stop there.\
\
Patrick Ishmael \'95t. Louis Policy analyst, Show-Me Institute\
\
Workplace smoking: The cost of perceived fairness and performance\
\
From public health research to Internet message boards to even an episode of \'93riends,\'94orkplace smoking is often seen but rarely discussed. Internet message boards, especially those related to the service industry, are replete with people who are annoyed (and sometimes even downright angry) about co-workers who smoke on the job. Smokers are estimated to lose up to 46 minutes of their workday through smoke breaks. While getting these extra breaks has drawn ire from co-workers, little has been studied as to how these extra breaks reflect upon bosses who manage smoking employees.\
\
In a study of perceived fairness and effective management, 169 employed men and women read stories about a smoker, a nonsmoker and a manager. In each story, the smoker took extra breaks throughout the day and the manager reacted in different ways. The manager either ignored the extra breaks, reprimanded the smoker or was unaware of the breaks altogether. After reading, participants then filled out surveys on how fair and how effective that manager was. Among the results, participants rated the manager who ignored or was even unaware of the smoke break as being less fair and even less effective at their job than the manager who reprimanded the smoker.\
\
The bottom line: Those in supervisory positions should strive to ensure that workplace rules are applied equally. Also, managers should try to address issues of workplace inequity between employees. In not doing so, a manager could receive lower performance ratings as well as other consequences.\
\
Matthew R. Milunski and Stephanie M. Merritt \'95t. Louis University of Missouri-St. Louis\
\
Replacing the term \'91illegal immigrant\'92\
\
After having read the Post-Dispatch article (\'93\'91Illegal immigrant\'92 Term stirs debate,\'94pril 5) regarding the hand-wringing indecision over what to call those foreigners that enter the United States by means other than use of the formal immigration process, I propose this solution.\
\
Since they are not citizens nor foreigners who have legally entered the country through approved channels, they fit the definition of an \'93lien.\'94\
\
By sneaking into the country through surreptitious, unapproved processes, they have broken our country\'92 laws. That makes them \'93riminals.\'94\
\
Therefore, they can legally and with political correctness be described as \'93riminal aliens.\'94\
\
Mike Sei Sr. \'95aryland Heights\
\
They came here without permission\
\
I agree with the decision by the Associated Press to no longer use the term \'93llegal immigrants\'94n their news stories (April 5). A more proper term to describe people who have entered and remain in the country without permission, and who have no legal way to support themselves, would be \'93llegal indigents.\'94\
\
Craig Niehaus \'95lendale\
\
Do not insult McClellan\'92 military service\
\
Regarding Edward J. \'93ack\'94eckerd\'92 letter about Bill McClellan as not a \'93eal military man\'94ecause he was drafted into the Marines (\'93ilitary duty costs those who serve,\'94pril 5):\
\
As a veteran Marine, who served in Vietnam with enlisted and draftees, I have a long family history of veterans who served in various wars since the beginning of the 20th century and were mostly drafted, some who gave the ultimate sacrifice. I disagree with Mr. McClellan\'92 view on military funeral honors, but don\'92 insult his military service. Mr. McClellan served in Vietnam. I am friends with a number of vets who were drafted and served in Vietnam, some who were killed and many who were wounded and suffer from Agent Orange exposure. How dare you refer to them as not \'93eal military men.\'94\
\
Carl Gordon \'95ildwood\
\
Help is available to handle the burdens of Alzheimer\'92\
\
There has been a lot of media coverage regarding the rising costs of Alzheimer\'92 disease. I am pleased to see that a disease that kills more people each year than breast cancer and prostate cancer combined is finally getting more attention. I can tell your readers firsthand that if stricken by Alzheimer\'92, it will be the most expensive thing they will ever have to pay for \'97ore expensive than their vehicles, their children\'92 education or their home. Unfortunately, most of the media coverage has failed to mention that there is help available.\
\
I have been married for more than 60 years to a sharp and vibrant woman, a vivacious high school teacher, eloquent speaker, and the most amazing wife and mother you could ever imagine. That was, until about 10 years ago, when she started withdrawing from social activities, forgot how to perform simple tasks, started leaving herself notes everywhere, and her personality changed. She was still my wife and I loved her very much, but she was certainly not the girl I had married. After many doctors visits and numerous tests, she was diagnosed with Alzheimer\'92 disease. Over the past 10 years, I have experienced the financial burden of this disease, but what\'92 more difficult is having to shoulder the tremendous emotional and physical toll of caring for a loved one with Alzheimer\'92.\
\
My wife is now in a nursing home and requires round-the-clock care. I spend time with her every day, and I realize how fortunate I am to be able to pay for her care. I also spend time each week volunteering at the Alzheimer\'92 Association, and I know there are many families who cannot afford the cost of care.\
\
We need the government, organizations and corporations to increase research funding in order to stop this disease. But until we discover treatments to cure, prevent or stop Alzheimer\'92, there are families who need help now. I want your readers to know they are not alone and support (consultations, respite care assistance, safety services, education, support groups, etc.) is available. Visit {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.alz.org/stl"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 www.alz.org/stl}}.\
\
Jim Miget \'95hesterfield\
\
Gay people are simply asking for same rights as a straight couple\
\
Regarding James H. Hahn\'92 letter (\'93ay people are seeking special privileges,\'94pril 4):\
\
For the record, I am firmly heterosexual, and the odds of me being in a homosexual relationship are so close to zero as to be nonexistent. However, to state that homosexuals are seeking special privileges because they are seeking the right to marry is ridiculous. Mr. Hahn\'92 argument that they are \'93nencumbered by child-bearing and child rearing\'94as no relevance to the matter. By his argument, a heterosexual couple that doesn\'92 wish to have children would be ineligible for marriage. Having children should by all rights take place within a marriage, but it should not be the determining factor for being able to marry.\
\
All gay people are seeking is the same rights that a straight couple has, including the right to have their property go to their spouses in the absence of a will. How this can be considered an unnecessary right, I don\'92 know.\
\
Wesley K. Taylor \'95t. Louis\
\
Document SLMO000020130408e9480005s\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b POLITICS DIGEST
\f1\b0 \
\
From news services   \
884 words\
3 October 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A7\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Stark differences likely to be displayed in first debate\
\
President Barack Obama, a Democrat, and his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, will offer voters two starkly different prescriptions for fixing the ailing economy as they duel tonight in their first debate.\
\
When the nationally televised, 90-minute debate kicks off at 8 p.m. St. Louis time, more than 60 million people are expected to be watching - far more than watched the two major party national conventions and dwarfing the number that watched Romney in Republican primary debates.\
\
In a survey of likely voters released Tuesday by Quinnipiac University, Romney leads among men, 52 percent to 42 percent. Obama leads by 56 percent to 38 percent among women. The president had a 4-percentage-point advantage among all voters.\
\
Romney might cut some income tax deductions - Offering deficit-cutting ideas before his first debate with Obama, Romney said he might be willing to reduce income tax deductions used by millions of families for home mortgage interest and health care costs. He suggested the changes could be part of a plan that includes a 20 percent cut in tax rates across the board, continuation of upper-income tax cuts that Obama wants to end and a comprehensive tax overhaul plan that the Republican presidential contender has so far declined to flesh out in detail.\
\
Romney seeks extended overseas voting deadline - Working to broaden his popularity among veterans, Romney's campaign has sent letters to election officials in Wisconsin, Mississippi and Vermont demanding that the deadline for receiving ballots from military and overseas voters be extended.\
\
Middle class 'buried' - Vice President Joe Biden said Tuesday that the middle class has been "buried" during the past four years. Romney replied on Twitter that he agrees with Biden, saying: "The middle class has been buried the last 4 years, which is why we need a change in November." Republican vice presidential candidate Paul Ryan said Tuesday that the way to help the middle class recover from the past four years was to elect Romney president.\
\
Pennsylvania's voter ID law is blocked - Pennsylvania's strict new photo ID requirement, which critics said could prevent tens of thousands of eligible voters from casting ballots, will not be enforced in the November election. A state judge blocked the new rule Tuesday after deciding state officials had failed to take steps to make sure all registered voters would be able to get the identification card they would need.\
\
Offshore deals benefited Romneys - Romney's former private equity firm used a half-dozen companies and partnerships in the tax havens of Luxembourg, Ireland and the Grand Caymans four years ago to channel $689 million in loans to a U.S. company that it co-owned. Some tax experts say that the circuitous paper chain probably was structured to avoid certain taxes for passive investors, including blind trusts for Romney and his wife.\
\
Obamas' wedding anniversary is tonight - Forget about a date night. Obama and his wife, Michelle, will be marking their wedding anniversary with a debate night. The couple's 20th anniversary is today. "Go figure," the first lady said in a recent television interview. The president says he and his wife have planned a belated anniversary celebration on Saturday.\
\
Young immigrants on radar - Romney said in an interview published Tuesday in the Denver Post that he would honor the temporary permission the Obama administration has granted to many young illegal immigrants to allow them to stay in the country.\
\
Obama announced in June that he would prevent deportation for some children brought to the United States by illegal immigrant parents. Applicants must not have a serious criminal record and must meet other requirements, such as graduating from high school or serving in the U.S. military.\
\
Romney had previously refused to say if he would retain the policy if he won the election.\
\
Obama visits Hoover Dam - Taking a break from debate prep, Obama made an unexpected stop Tuesday at the Hoover Dam, his first visit to a tourist spot considered one of the world's great engineering feats. The dam is roughly a 30-minute drive from Henderson, Nev., where Obama is preparing for the debate tonight with Romney.\
\
Some in GOP seek distance - In some states, candidates who share the Nov. 6 ballot with Romney already have taken steps to establish independence from him. Among them are Arizona Rep. Jeff Flake and North Dakota Rep. Rick Berg, who are both seeking Senate seats. Party strategists predict more will follow, perhaps as soon as next week.\
\
Former Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour, who headed the Republican Party when it won control of Congress in the 1990s, said over the weekend that Romney's campaign was "about everything but the issues. It's about everything but Obama's policies and the failures of those policies."\
\
Matthew Dowd, who was a senior political adviser to President George W. Bush, said the Romney campaign "left the playing field totally to Barack Obama and the Obama campaign."\
\
Photo by David Goldman \'95ssociated Press Stand-ins for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and President Barack Obama, shake hands on stage during a rehearsal Tuesday for the first presidential debate, tonight at 8 St. Louis time at the University of Denver.   \
\
Document SLMO000020121003e8a30009b\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Couple win right to adopt 5-year-old Illegal immigrant abandoned boy, judge rules in case that drew international scrutiny.
\f1\b0 \
\
BY NANCY CAMBRIA  Nancy.Cambria@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8238 The Associated Press and Marlon A. Walker of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.   \
824 words\
19 July 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
A Greene County juvenile court ruled Wednesday in favor of a Missouri couple seeking to adopt the child of a Guatemalan woman who had been arrested and detained for working in the country illegally.\
\
The decision culminates a lengthy international custody dispute over the child that put American immigration policies under scrutiny and drew outrage from a Guatemalan diplomat and\'a0thers\'a0ighting for immigrant rights.\
\
Judge David Jones ruled in a closed Springfield, Mo., courtroom that the 5-year-old boy's birth mother, Encarnacion Bail Romero, had abandoned the child. The ruling terminated the birth mother's parental rights and paved the way for Seth and Melinda Moser of Carthage, Mo., to formally adopt the child.\
\
The couple have raised the boy since he was an infant. The boy, Carlos Jamison Moser, who goes by the name Jamison, just completed preschool, said the family's attorney, Joe Hensley.\
\
"The Mosers are very happy," Hensley said. "This is something that's been hanging over their heads for years. They're ready to close that chapter of their lives and move on."\
\
Romero, who has been allowed to remain in the country awaiting the outcome of the dispute, was present in the courtroom. Neither she nor her attorney could be reached for comment.\
\
Those working for immigration rights who had watched the case closely said they were disappointed.\
\
"Cases like these are the byproducts of fundamental gaps in the immigration and child welfare systems that make it all but impossible for parents in immigration detention to participate in proceedings affecting custody of their children," said Emily Butera of the Women's Refugee Commission's detention and asylum program.\
\
The case garnered international attention in 2008 after Romero challenged the Mosers' adoption of the child. At the time of the adoption, Romero was in detention awaiting potential deportation to Guatemala after being arrested in May 2007 during a raid on illegal workers at a poultry plant in Barry County.\
\
While Romero was in custody, her child, an infant at the time, was passed around among family members before eventually being adopted privately by the Mosers. That adoption was overturned in the appellate court.\
\
The decision Wednesday follows the January 2011 Missouri Supreme Court ruling that sent the case back to the circuit courts after finding that the mother's rights had not been upheld in a Jasper County court.\
\
During that Supreme Court hearing, the Mosers argued that even if their adoption wasn't proper - which was key to Romero's case - it wouldn't be in the best interest of the child to take him away from the parents he knows now and send him to another country.\
\
The boy, who is a citizen of both the U.S. and Guatemala, speaks only English.\
\
Attorneys for Romero, who\'a0oes not speak English, said she was not given proper legal counsel or proper communication with the court, nor did she fully understand her rights and the proceedings of the juvenile courts and the adoption process.\
\
They further argued that she served two years in prison away from her child for violating a law that was determined unconstitutional by the Supreme Court shortly after she was incarcerated.\
\
At the time of the Supreme Court arguments, the situation drew criticism from Guatemalan Ambassador to the United States Francisco Villagran de Leon, who said children of undocumented immigrants should not be given up for adoption just because they are here illegally.\
\
Although justices on the Supreme Court unanimously agreed that Romero's legal rights as a parent were unfairly terminated when the Jasper County court failed to take proper legal steps, the court split 4-3 on how to resolve who should get custody of the boy and when. The majority ordered the case back to the lower courts.\
\
One justice cast the case in biblical terms, referencing the story of Solomon who was called upon to resolve a child custody dispute.\
\
"At least Solomon had the option to decree that the child be cut in half, " Justice Michael Wolff wrote in a separate opinion. "All we lesser judges have is the law, and it is our duty to make sure that the law is obeyed."\
\
Romero's attorney, Curtis Woods, said that his client was "very upset" and that he planned to appeal Wednesday's ruling..\
\
Photo by Missouri News Horizon Melinda and Seth Moser of Carthage, Mo., will be allowed to formally adopt their son, born to an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, after a judge ruled Wednesday that his birth mother had abandoned him. The case put U.S. immigration policies under scrutiny and stirred outrage.  Photo - Romero   \
\
Document SLMO000020120719e87j0005l\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION
\f1\b0 \
\
1,345 words\
15 July 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Fourth Edition\
A16\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Salvation Army knows need never takes a holiday\
\
"Heatstroke doesn't take a holiday" (July 8) pointed out that many area cooling centers were closed over the July Fourth holiday. The Salvation Army Emergency Disaster Services volunteers were on the streets from June 28 through July 7, including the holiday, distributing cold water throughout the region.\
\
On July 4, The Salvation Army's Midland Division deployed six canteen vehicles and 14 volunteers distributed more than 1,100 bottles of cold water in the city. In the 10-day extreme heat period, the Salvation Army distributed 10,735 cold bottles of water to these areas and many more in the metro area.\
\
The Salvation Army, the region's leading social services provider, understands the region's needs and will meet those needs when possible. It is through the support of donors and volunteers, including Anheuser-Busch InBev, which donated $2,000 for the purchase of bottled water, that we are able to respond swiftly and widely. The Salvation Army also offers rental and utility assistance to those in need this time of year to ensure that they can afford to keep cool indoors in extreme conditions.\
\
The Salvation Army knows that need knows no season and never takes a holiday, and just as we responded quickly to the damaging storms on New Year's Eve and Good Friday last year, we will continue to stand at the ready with our network of trained volunteers and responders ready to go to work whenever the calls for help come.\
\
Major Lonneal Richardson - St. Louis Divisional Commander, Midland Division, The Salvation Army\
\
Hedged markets\
\
The story "Farm anxiety grows as crops wilt" (July 1) said "Some cattle are worth half what they were just three weeks ago as animals flood the market." This might have happened in pioneer days, but not now, with modern communication and transportation. Cattle simply do not sell for $1.50 a pound in Bowling Green, Mo., and 75 cents in Springfield, Mo. Every sale barn will have buyers with cellphones and orders from several states.\
\
Feeder cattle are priced relative to feed costs and commodity futures on the predicted sale date. Most all of our feeder cattle in the area are sent to Western feed lots. Most feed lots producing choice and prime slaughter cattle are hedged on the futures market. Missouri feeder cattle are sent to these commercial feed lots for about a 140-day finishing period to produce marbled steak you can cook on the grill. Slaughter cattle are at near-record highs.\
\
Still, there is not much enthusiasm for buying cattle and bringing them back to the farms in this area now.\
\
Bill Northcutt - New London, Mo.\
\
Leveled playing field\
\
Regarding "Tame the dark money" (July 8): Why is most of the Post-Dispatch's commentary "to shed light on who's buying America" a negative portrayal of conservative efforts? Until the recent decision by "five compliant Supreme Court justices," the only groups able to pour money into a campaign were liberal or related to unions.\
\
Suddenly, it is bad to voice disagreement with a certain political stance. As long as liberal groups controlled the louder voice, it was fine. Now, with the playing field leveled, a large group voice is merely a way to "hide in the shadows." This is precisely the advantage that unions and George Soros-type groups always have had. To say that Mr. Soros' groups merely are using their money to facilitate get-out-the-vote efforts is not true. To truly "tame the dark money," individual contributors to all groups would have to be listed, and we know that will never happen.\
\
Gary E. Fowler - Marion, Ill.\
\
Pointing at the liar\
\
The bias in Post-Dispatch editorials1 usually provokes in me laughter or frustration. "Tame the dark money" (July 8) met my expectations. I think most people agree that elections now are won or lost not by ideas but by the amount of money raised to demagogue your opponent. The Post-Dispatch conveniently forgets this started with President Barack Obama, who bragged that he would raise $1 billion for reelection. What is the other side supposed to do?\
\
The editorial said that the money used to attack Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., was insulting voters and that George Soros' money is better than Republican money. The Post-Dispatch, Democrats and Republicans all should be very proud. We're sinking fast. No one can tell the truth, but everybody points at the liar.\
\
Roger Pipes - Ferguson\
\
What is needed?\
\
Regarding Charles Krauthammer's "The imperial presidency revisited" (July 8): Mr. Krauthammer is very pleased with the Supreme Court decision upholding part of the Arizona immigration law that requires law enforcement to verify the immigration status of people stopped for other law infractions. In the many articles written about this law, no one has ever made clear how ordinary citizens can prove their legal resident status. I am a 66-year-old man of German descent. When I am stopped for speeding while on vacation in Arizona, how do I prove to the police that I am not an illegal immigrant from Germany? If only my Missouri driver's license is needed, there is no change because that is the first thing an officer would ask to see if I were to be stopped by the police. If the law requires more, I want to know what I need to carry with me when I visit the fair state of Arizona.\
\
Paul R. Schroeder - Florissant\
\
Suicidal species\
\
Sadly, succumbing to the national pastime of embarrassing optimism, Leonard Pitts resorts to flag-waving after all, regurgitating again the arguments for "America the greatest" (July 8); today we can't even finish a tunnel, much less a supercollider, or mitigate the toxic carbon waste spewing in the air.\
\
Meanwhile, the country bakes in its self-made oven, its "leaders" babbling "exceptionalism" as they snivel, lie and cry "hoax!" - even confronted by a tipping-point summer, denying the now-proven ineluctable reality of global warming while praying to unprovable imponderable entities for guidance or mercy. The same scared animal crouches at the cave entrance and the spear is now a gun, but the dogs and gods are the same. Suicidal species don't survive.\
\
All the collective might do to salvage this nation now would be to ban money from politics and white males from federal office for the next six election cycles. It's already probably too late; and if former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, the probable Republican nominee for president, wins, the tar sands will smother us. All the individual can do is work for a rich, honest life for the few she or he holds most dear and convince himself that the great-grandchildren will have enough water to stay alive.\
\
Roger McWilliams - Maryland Heights\
\
Who cares for the common good?\
\
I am astounded by the analysis done by the Federal Reserve in June that states that the net value of the average middle-class family has fallen to within the range of its value in the early 1990s.\
\
I am a retired teacher. My pension and its investments in the stock market have taken a hit. My health care costs have climbed to unreasonable levels. Who is to blame? Who will address my needs? There is a lot of political posturing, and I am astounded to listen to the half truths spoken boldly by politicians seeking votes.\
\
Fellow Americans, let's listen carefully to the rhetoric and discern what is true and what is half-true. Let us also look at the special interests that are funding some of these candidates. Whose pockets are they in? The website followthemoney.org lists contributors to various candidates in state and national races.\
\
Who cares for the middle class?, the poor, the common good? It is not the special-interest groups that dominate the political landscape now.\
\
Let's elect people who will represent us well.\
\
Kirt Bromley - St. Louis\
\
Document SLMO000020120715e87f0008s\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b LAW & ORDER PUBLIC SAFETY
\f1\b0 \
\
1,117 words\
30 June 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A4\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
KIRKWOOD > Man charged in sword attack - Police say a St. Louis man stabbed another man with a samurai sword Thursday night in a dispute at a Kirkwood home. William Earnhart struck a 32-year-old man in the arm with a samurai sword at a gathering about 10 p.m. at their friend's house in the 500 block of Coverdale Lane, police say. Police said in court documents Earnhart and the victim were told to go outside to fight. As they left, Earnhart grabbed a 30-inch sword from the dining room and slashed the victim's right arm to the bone, cutting a 5-inch gash above the elbow, according to court documents. Police arrested Earnhart at the house and said he admitted assaulting the man, who was being treated at a hospital Friday. Earnhart, 46, of the 5700 block of Sulphur Avenue, was charged Friday with first-degree assault and armed criminal action and jailed in lieu of a $100,000 cash bail.\
\
ST. CLAIR COUNTY > Stores to get back some of seized cash - Crown Food Mart has reached an agreement with prosecutors to surrender $40,000 of the $200,000 that police seized in a raid of three stores in April. The St. Clair County state's attorney, Brendan F. Kelly, announced the deal on Friday. The food marts are at 8301 State Street, 348 Collinsville Avenue, and 306 River Park Drive in East St. Louis. Kelly's office said that the owners of three Crown Food Marts also agreed to abide by the new hours for liquor sales in East St. Louis; hire an armed security guard at each of the three stores from 9 p.m. to closing; maintain a surveillance camera with 360-degree views; post signs prohibiting loitering and prohibit people on probation and parole from being on the property; and pay stiffer penalties for any violations in the future.\
\
ST. LOUIS > Shooting victim is identified - A man fatally shot after police say he confronted two officers with a gun Thursday evening has been identified as Bobby "Jake" E. King, 48. The gunfire erupted about 7 p.m. Thursday after police were called to King's home in the 7000 block of Mitchell Avenue for a domestic dispute, police said. King's son, Chris King, said his father was "a good man" and "an awesome dad" who owned a concrete construction business. Chris King did not comment on his father's actions, why he may have been upset or his recent state of mind. King's wife had asked for police assistance as she went into her home to retrieve clothing and personal items, police say. Chris King said his parents had an quarrel, but that his father did not physically assault his mom. When the officers were inside the home, the husband pulled a gun on them, police said. Police said the officers took cover and ordered King to drop the gun. He refused and he and the officers exchanged shots. King died at the scene. Police Chief Dan Isom said an officer, whose name has not been released, had a graze wound to the arm.\
\
TROY, MO. > Man accused of sexual contact with 10-year-old girl - Robert E. Colboth, 33, of the 1800 block of West Highway U, was charged Friday with three counts of first-degree statutory sodomy-deviate sexual intercourse and one count of child molestation. He is being held in the Lincoln County Jail on $100,000 cash-only bail. The alleged abuse took place in May and this month at the girl's residence in Troy.\
\
ST. LOUIS > Store's owner admits selling phony goods - The owner of a sporting goods store in Ferguson has pleaded guilty in St. Louis federal court of selling counterfeit goods, federal prosecutors say. Same Ndiaye, 50, admitted selling counterfeit clothing, shoes and other goods from his store, Sasooum Sport Fashions, that would have been worth more than $900,000 if the brands had been authentic, authorities say. The fakes were purported to be from Coogi, Ed Hardy, Rocawear, Ralph Lauren, Baby Phat, North Face and others. The store, opened in 2006, is now closed. Authorities say federal agents found fake goods at the business and his home in February. Sentencing is set for Oct. 3. He faces up to 10 years in prison and fines of up to $2 million.\
\
CLINTON COUNTY > Businessmen plead guilty in illegal immigrant case - Owners of two businesses in Clinton County, Ill, pleaded guilty in federal court Friday to harboring illegal immigrants for business and personal gain. The businesses, Behrmann Meat Processing Inc. and Behrmann Yorkshire Farm, came to the attention of border patrol and customs agents when three illegal immigrants attempted to access Scott Air Force Base, according to prosecutors. Authorities discovered the three were working for the two businesses. Owner Dennis Behrmann admitted he knew the workers were in the country illegally and continued to employ them, and Clifford Behrmann admitted he rented a house on the farm's property to one of the workers, said Stephen Wigginton, the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Illinois. The companies agreed to forfeit $50,000 to the federal government and pay a $5,000 fine. The owners also agreed to allow inspections and to participate in compliance training.\
\
ST. LOUIS COUNTY > Bank is robbed - St. Louis County police are searching for a man who robbed the U.S. Bank at 2041 Union Road on Friday. Police said the man robbed the bank at 2 p.m. and escaped with an undetermined amount of money. He left the bank and entered a gray, older model GMC pickup with no license plates. The man is described as in his mid-50s, about 5 feet 8 to 5 feet 10 with a medium build. Anyone with information about the incident should call the St. Louis County Police Department at 314-889-2341 or CrimeStoppers at 866-371-8477.\
\
ST. LOUIS > Life sentence in slaying - Former radio talk show host Leonardo Drisdel was sentenced Friday in St. Louis Circuit Court to life in prison without the possibility of parole for killing a woman seven years ago. Cassandra Kovack, 28, was beaten, bitten and smothered June 4, 2005, after inviting Drisdel home and cooking him pasta. At the time of the killing, Drisdel hosted a weekly radio show called "The Human Factor" on WGNU. Drisdel's wife at the time of the killing told police he told her he had gone to Kovack's home to smoke crack cocaine and heard a voice order him to kill Kovack because she was the devil.\
\
Photo - Earnhart  Photo - Suspect   \
\
Document SLMO000020120705e86u0003d\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Immigration ruling worries group here Court decision in Arizona case may prompt more racial profiling, refugee advocates say.
\f1\b0 \
\
BY DOUG MOORE \'95moore@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8125   \
453 words\
28 June 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A8\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
ST. LOUIS - The Supreme Court decision this week to leave standing a key provision of Arizona's illegal immigration law has local advocates concerned that it could open the door to broader racial profiling laws around the country, including Missouri.\
\
A coalition of agencies led by Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates held a news conference Wednesday on the steps of the Thomas F. Eagleton U.S. Courthouse to respond to the high court's decision.\
\
"We're pleased as punch" that almost all the law was thrown out, said Joan Suarez, chairman of MIRA, "but saddened they didn't take it one step further."\
\
The provision the Supreme Court let stand says Arizona police must check the immigration status of those stopped for various reasons who might appear to be in the U.S. illegally.\
\
Suarez said leaving that part of the law intact could lead to a great deal of racial profiling and "copycatting in a lot of states, including Missouri."\
\
St. Louis County Police Chief Tim Fitch said the Arizona law doesn't clearly define what "reasonable suspicion" is for thinking someone might be in the country illegally.\
\
"Is it dark skin? Is it an accent?" he said. "The court did not lay that out for law enforcement."\
\
Fitch agrees that illegal immigration issues should be left to federal authorities.\
\
"We don't want to take officers off the street to handle federal law," Fitch said. "Clearly, we already have our hands full."\
\
Immigration has become a high profile issue in the past few weeks, nationally and locally.\
\
On June 15, President Barack Obama, through an executive order, announced that illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children will be able to apply for work permits and avoid deportation. On Monday, the Supreme Court struck down most of the Arizona immigration law, including requiring all immigrants to carry immigration registration papers; making it a state criminal offense for an illegal immigrant to seek work or hold a job; and allowing police to arrest suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.\
\
Locally, a study released last week by economic development officials in St. Louis and St. Louis County revealed that one reason the region's growth has fallen behind many other big cities is the low rate of immigration here.\
\
About 126,000 St. Louisans, less than 5 percent of the region's population, were born overseas. That rate is four or five times less than most of the rest of the nation's 20 biggest metro areas, the study found.\
\
Document SLMO000020120714e86s000ak\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Challenges are likely elsewhere SUPREME COURT RULINGS
\f1\b0 \
\
By JAY REEVES  Associated Press   \
263 words\
26 June 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A4\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
BIRMINGHAM, ALA. - Monday's Supreme Court ruling overturning key provisions of Arizona's law on illegal immigration opens the door for courts to strike down similar measures in states that have tried to make it a crime for illegal immigrants to live and work in the U.S.\
\
The high court struck down Arizona's requirement that all immigrants obtain or carry immigration registration papers; a provision making it a crime for an illegal immigrant to seek or hold a job; and a provision allowing police to arrest suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.\
\
In the majority opinion written by Justice Anthony Kennedy, the court ruled that those provisions conflicted with federal law.\
\
Laws passed in Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Indiana and Utah were modeled at least in part on the one passed by Arizona in 2010. Now that the Supreme Court has weighed in on the issue, challenges to the laws in those states are now likely to move forward.\
\
Both supporters and detractors of the crackdowns describe Alabama's law as the toughest in the nation. It adopted much of the Arizona law and incorporated other provisions, including a requirement that public schools verify the citizenship status of new students.\
\
Also, Alabama is the only state where courts allowed a provision to take effect that requires officers to make a "reasonable attempt" during any traffic stop or other police encounter to determine the immigration status of a person if there is suspicion of someone being an illegal immigrant.\
\
Document SLMO000020120730e86q000h1\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Arizona immigration law largely rejected SUPREME COURT RULINGS
\f1\b0 \
\
Associated Press Bill Lambrecht and Elizabeth Crisp of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.   \
1,535 words\
26 June 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
THE ISSUE - The Arizona case focused on whether states can adopt their own measures to deal with illegal immigration amid federal inaction, or whether the federal government has almost exclusive authority in that area. The court ruled that regulating immigration is a federal responsibility.\
\
UPHELD - The court unanimously said Arizona's police can check the immigration status of people they have stopped for other reasons if police believe they might be illegal immigrants. But the court said the federal government has the ultimate authority to decide who will be held on immigration charges and deported.\
\
REJECTED - In split decisions, the court struck down major provisions: \'95equiring all immigrants to obtain or carry immigration registration papers. \'95aking it a state criminal offense for an illegal immigrant to seek work or hold a job. \'95llowing police to arrest suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.\
\
---\
\
WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court threw out key provisions of Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigrants Monday but said a much-debated portion could go forward - that police must check the status of people stopped for various reasons who might appear to be in the U.S. illegally.\
\
The court struck down these three major provisions: requiring all immigrants to obtain or carry immigration registration papers, making it a state criminal offense for an illegal immigrant to seek work or hold a job and allowing police to arrest suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.\
\
The court upheld the "show me your papers" requirement, but even there the justices said the provision could be subject to additional legal challenges. And they removed some teeth by prohibiting officers from arresting people on immigration charges.\
\
The administration of President Barack Obama had assailed the Arizona law as an unconstitutional intrusion into an area under Washington's control, and the court struck down provisions that would have made state crimes out of federal immigration violations.\
\
The Arizona case focused on whether states can adopt their own measures to deal with an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the face of federal inaction on comprehensive reform, or whether the federal government has almost exclusive authority in that area.\
\
Justice Anthony Kennedy, joined in his majority opinion by conservative Chief Justice John Roberts as well as three liberal justices - Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor - said the impasse in Washington over immigration reform did not justify state intrusion.\
\
"Arizona may have understandable frustrations with the problems caused by illegal immigration while that process continues, but the state may not pursue policies that undermine federal law," Kennedy said.\
\
Several lawmakers and civil rights groups said the part of the law left in place by the high court was an invitation to racial profiling.\
\
Members of Congress from the St. Louis region cast an eye to the future when reacting to the ruling.\
\
Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., said he had "great concerns" with the decision and blamed the federal government for failing to secure the border. "This impacts our nation's economy, schools, hospitals, criminal justice system and communities across America, and it's why Arizona had to take these steps in the first place. We need a long-term solution," he said.\
\
Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-St. Louis, said he was encouraged by a ruling that "confirms the urgent need for comprehensive immigration reform that is honest, compassionate and enforceable across the country. "\
\
Clay added that he was troubled that the court upheld the provision enabling police to check a person's immigration status. That provision, he asserted, "could result in racial profiling by law enforcement agencies. ... Law enforcement agencies in Arizona and elsewhere must not take this ruling as a license to judge individuals solely by what they look like."\
\
Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., observed that the court had signaled that it would be open to challenges of that part of the law. "I am confident that this provision, which will encourage racial profiling and ultimately harm law enforcement, will eventually be struck down," he said, adding that the overall ruling "makes it clear that it's up to Congress to take reasonable steps to address illegal immigration."\
\
A spokesman for Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., said that she was reviewing the ruling, "but, as a former prosecutor, she supports looking for common sense solutions that balance enforcement of our laws while also protecting the rights of individuals who are U.S. citizens or legal immigrants."\
\
Contenders for Missouri's GOP Senate nomination spoke of the need to protect states' rights. John Brunner said it was "absolutely critical that our states have the authority and ability to enforce immigration law to ensure the safety of our citizens and maintain the rule of law, especially when the federal government fails to do its job."\
\
Sarah Steelman, like Brunner, said she was thankful that the court upheld the provision enabling police to run checks on a person's immigration status if reasonable suspicion exists that immigration laws were violated.\
\
U.S. Rep. Todd Akin called the decision "a mixed bag."\
\
"Illegal immigration hurts our country in numerous ways, and it is sad that states are doing more to enforce our immigration laws than the federal government," he said.\
\
Meanwhile, Missouri state Sen. Will Kraus, a Republican from Lee's Summit who sponsored multiple immigration bills the past legislative session in Jefferson City, said he thought the court ruling could make a strong case for future reform at the Capitol.\
\
None of Kraus' immigration bills made it to the Senate floor this session. Critics of the bills argued that the state should wait until the court decided the constitutionality of Arizona's law before moving forward.\
\
Joan Suarez, chair of Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates, said she hoped lawmakers wouldn't use the court case as a crutch to pass immigration laws in the same vein as Arizona's.\
\
"I would hate to see the Arizonification of Missouri," she said.\
\
The court announced that Thursday would be the last day of rulings this term, which means the decision on Obama's landmark health care overhaul probably will come that day.\
\
The Arizona decision landed in the middle of a presidential campaign in which Obama has been heavily courting Latino voters and Republican challenger Mitt Romney has been struggling to win Latino support. During a drawn-out primary campaign, Romney and the other GOP candidates mostly embraced a hard line on illegal immigrants, though Romney has lately taken a softer tone.\
\
Obama said he was pleased that the court struck down key parts of Arizona's law but concerned about what the high court left intact.\
\
"No American should ever live under a cloud of suspicion just because of what they look like," the president said in a written statement.\
\
Romney did not immediately comment on the court decision Monday but said, "I believe that each state has the duty - and the right - to secure our borders and preserve the rule of law, particularly when the federal government has failed to meet its responsibilities."\
\
In Monday's decision, the court was unanimous on allowing the immigration status check to go forward. The justices were divided on striking down the other portions.\
\
Justice Kennedy said the law could - and suggested it should - be read to avoid concerns that status checks could lead to prolonged detention.\
\
Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer said the ruling marked a victory for people who believe in the responsibility of states to defend their residents. The case, she said, "has always been about our support for the rule of law. That means every law, including those against both illegal immigration and racial profiling. Law enforcement will be held accountable should this statute be misused in a fashion that violates an individual's civil rights."\
\
Civil rights groups that separately challenged the law over concerns that it would lead to rights abuses said their lawsuit would go on.\
\
Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas would have allowed all the challenged provisions to take effect. Justice Samuel Alito would have allowed police to arrest undocumented immigrants who seek work, and also make arrests without warrants.\
\
Justice Elena Kagan sat out the case because of her work in the Obama administration.\
\
The case is Arizona v. U.S., 11-182.\
\
---\
\
"Today is a day when the key components of our efforts to protect the citizens of Arizona - to take up the fight against illegal immigration in a balanced and constitutional way - has unanimously been vindicated by the highest court in the land."\
\
- Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer\
\
Photo by Associated Press Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer  Photo by Ross D. Franklin \'95ssociated Press Members of Promise Arizona, an organization that advocates for immigrants, mark the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling Monday on the state's immigration law.  Photo by Ross D. Franklin \'95ssociated Press People at the Arizona Capitol mark the U.S. Supreme Court ruling on the state's immigration law. After the ruling, the Department of Homeland Security canceled agreements with seven Arizona police departments that deputized officers to make immigration violation arrests while on patrol.   \
\
Document SLMO000020120730e86q000h0\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b High court denies twins Social Security benefits
\f1\b0 \
\
By David G. Savage  \'95ribune Washington Bureau The Associated Press contributed to this report.   \
627 words\
22 May 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A17\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
WASHINGTON - A widow who conceived a baby from the sperm of her late husband is not automatically entitled to Social Security survivor's benefits to help raise the child, the Supreme Court ruled Monday.\
\
The 9-0 decision rejected the claim that a biological child of a married couple, even one born years after the father died, always qualifies as his survivor under the Social Security Act.\
\
Instead, the justices upheld the government's multipart definition of who deserves survivors benefits. One requirement is that a "natural child" is one who is entitled to inherit the father's property under state law.\
\
"Tragic circumstances gave rise to this case," said Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, noting that Robert Capato died of cancer in Florida in 2002 before he and his wife, Karen, could have the family they envisioned. He deposited sperm in a sperm bank after he got sick.\
\
About 18 months after his death, his widow gave birth to twins who were conceived through in vitro fertilization. She sought survivors benefits for the two children. She argued that because they were the children of a married father, they should receive benefits he had earned.\
\
The Social Security Administration said it was sympathetic but rejected her claim nonetheless. It pointed to regulations that define a "natural child" as one who "could inherit" the father's property under state law. Under Florida law, "children conceived after a parent's death" are not entitled to inherit his property, Ginsburg said. The children were not named in his will.\
\
In other cases:\
\
- The court made it harder for illegal immigrants to avoid deportation by arguing their immigrant parents had obtained legal status as lawful U.S. residents.\
\
One provision in federal immigration law permits leniency for an illegal immigrant who faces possible deportation but who had been granted lawful residence status for at least five years. Until Monday, it was unclear whether undocumented children could take advantage of their parents' legal status.\
\
The issue arises sometimes when illegal immigrants are charged with a crime that could subject them to deportation. In a 9-0 decision, the court agreed with the government and ruled individuals must earn their own leniency through years of lawful residence. A parent's legal residence is not transferred to his child, the court said in Holder v. Martinez-Gutierrez.\
\
The ruling reverses the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco, which was alone in adopting the more liberal rule that allowed children to take advantage of their parents' legal status.\
\
- The justices say they will consider shutting down a legal challenge to a law that lets the United States eavesdrop on overseas communications.\
\
A federal appeals court ruled last year that a lawsuit filed by lawyers, journalists and human rights groups objecting to the latest version of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act could proceed. But the Obama administration appealed, and the justices said Monday they will take up the case in the fall.\
\
The lawsuit was brought by those in jobs that require them to speak with people overseas who are possible targets of the surveillance.\
\
- The court refused to take up a Boston University student's constitutional challenge to a $675,000 penalty for illegally downloading 30 songs and sharing them on the Internet.\
\
The high court on Monday refused to hear an appeal from Joel Tenenbaum, of Providence, R.I., who was successfully sued by the Recording Industry Association of America for illegally sharing music on peer-to-peer networks. In 2009, a jury ordered Tenenbaum to pay $675,000, or $22,500 for each song he illegally downloaded and shared.\
\
Document SLMO000020120522e85m0003k\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b LAW & ORDER
\f1\b0 \
\
917 words\
28 April 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A3\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
UNIVERSITY CITY > Wounded man charged - Darius M. Robinson, 24, who was shot in the ankle by police Thursday after he pointed a rifle at officers, was charged Friday with second-degree assault on an officer, resisting arrest and receiving stolen property. He was held in lieu of $25,000 bail. Robinson, of the 6700 block of Corbitt Avenue in University City, allegedly fled a traffic stop by St. Louis police at Page Avenue and North Skinker Parkway in St. Louis and was pursued to the 6800 block of Roberts Avenue in University City. He was shot when he pointed a rifle at police, officials said. He was treated at a hospital and taken into custody.\
\
ST. LOUIS > Man charged in stabbing - Prosecutors on Friday charged a man in a fatal stabbing Thursday in the city's Hamilton Heights neighborhood. Glenn Anderson, 41, of the 5300 block of Ruskin Avenue, was charged with second-degree murder and armed criminal action. Police said he stabbed Russell D. Anderson, 29, of the 1600 block of Norlakes Drive in north St. Louis County, in the chest about 2:40 p.m. Anderson died at a hospital. The two men are not related but were long-time friends who got into a fight over money, police say.\
\
A mugshot was not available Friday. He is being held without bail.\
\
ST. LOUIS > Man to undergo psychiatric exam - A federal judge on Friday ordered a psychiatric evaluation of the man accused of lobbing a Molotov cocktail at the Robert A. Young Federal Building downtown Monday.\
\
U.S. Magistrate Judge Frederick Buckles ordered the exam of Jeremiah Merello McGee, 33, of Fairview Heights, during a brief hearing Friday morning.\
\
Federal prosecutors had asked for the exam Wednesday.\
\
McGee's federal public defender, Felicia Jones, asked for more time and on Thursday, in a court filing, agreed with the need for the exam but asked for it to be performed while McGee was housed in a local jail, rather than in a federal facility.\
\
McGee had been treated for mental problems before, according to court testimony Friday and during another hearing Wednesday.\
\
But Buckles said that he was sending McGee to the Bureau of Prisons for the evaluation, citing the round-the-clock monitoring and better medical and mental health care available there.\
\
In addition to prosecutors, court staff and U.S. marshals had raised concerns about McGee's behavior, Buckles said Wednesday.\
\
Prosecutors charged McGee Tuesday with attempted destruction of U.S. property by fire or explosion. Investigators say he parked near the Federal Building at 1222 Spruce Street just after 1a.m. Monday, and threw a Starbucks Mocha Frappucino bottle containing a flammable substance at the building as a security guard watched. The attack caused a small fire that scorched the side of the building and the sidewalk.\
\
Court documents claim McGee had been asked to leave an Army recruiting station in Fairview Heights April 13 after mumbling about "about the Army and the government 'getting up in his house.'"\
\
Investigators also found a gasoline container and documents from the IRS in his car after his arrest.\
\
COLLINSVILLE > Two men charged in man's death - Two men were charged Friday in connection with the death of a Collinsville man.\
\
Prosecutors in Madison County charged Jeffery L. Sminchak, 55 of the 900 block of St. Clair Court with two counts of obstructing justice. He was jailed in lieu of a $25,000 bail.\
\
Timothy J. Hillyer, 49, was charged with two felony counts of concealing a homicide. He was jailed Friday in lieu of a $250,000 cash bail.\
\
Police have not explained the nature of the charges against the men, but investigators say they expect more charges soon.\
\
The suspects' roommate, Russell O. Miller, 55, was found Monday night at his home in the 900 block of St. Clair Court.\
\
Police say Miller's death was suspicious but have not released additional details about how he was killed.\
\
Miller was reported missing April 15.\
\
TROY, MO. > Man charged with raping teen - A Troy man has been charged with sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. Luis Guzman, 24, who uses the name Juan Domingo Francisco-Esteban, is charged with forcible rape. He was being held Friday without bond in the Lincoln County Jail. Guzman had been living in the 500 block of East Cherry Street, but police said he is an illegal immigrant from Guatemala. The attack happened at the teen's home earlier this month. The girl told police that three men participated in the rape. She said she was held down on her couch during the attack. Police said the investigation is ongoing.\
\
FORISTELL > Homeless man arrested after knifing - An altercation between two homeless men at an encampment near a truck stop ended with one man in the hospital and the other in jail. Ryan William Sperry, 33, is charged with assault and armed criminal action. The injured man is 54. According to police, the attack took place in a wooded area near the Travel Centers of America. It began after the men got into an argument over some items missing from the victim's tent. Sperry allegedly attacked the other man with a knife. The injured man suffered a 5-inch cut on his face, from the bottom of his chin to his left ear, police said. Sperry was being held Friday in the St. Charles County Jail on $30,000 bail.\
\
McGee  Sminchak  Hillyer  Miller   \
\
Document SLMO000020120429e84s00036\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b LAW & ORDER
\f1\b0 \
\
507 words\
20 March 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A3\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
ST. LOUIS > Third man charged in fatal home invasion - A man who police say was involved in a 2010 robbery and killing at a home in the 3900 block of Natural Bridge Avenue was arrested and charged Monday in connection with the crime. Kenneth L. Rodgers, 21, of the 4000 block of Lincoln Avenue in St. Louis, was charged in St. Louis Circuit Court with second-degree murder, four counts of first-degree robbery and five counts of armed criminal action. A judge ordered him held on $500,000 cash-only bail. Bryan D. Neal, 23, was killed in the Jan. 11, 2010, shooting and robbery. Police said Rodgers and two others went to the home about midnight, stole cellphones and cash and got into a dispute with those inside before Neal was shot. Two other men, Remus Raymond Moore and Larry Cloud Edwards Jr., pleaded guilty in May 2011 of second-degree murder and 11 other felonies in the incident. Moore, the shooter, was sentenced to life in prison. Edwards was sentenced to 25 years in prison.\
\
ST. LOUIS > Trial begins for man accused of Ponzi scheme - Federal prosecutors on Monday began laying out their case against Martin Sigillito, an American Anglican bishop and Clayton lawyer accused of cheating up to 150 investors across the country in a $66 million Ponzi scheme.\
\
The trial, expected to last four weeks, will feature some of the upper crust of St. Louis society, members of the Racquet Club of St. Louis who say they trusted Sigillito with their money because of his lawyer credentials and impressive academic record - and because, according to prosecutors, he talked a good game. The mode for the fraud, according to prosecutors, was a lending project in England that was supposed to pay investors back through smart land purchases.\
\
Sigillito's attorney, Doug Roller, said the loan agreements told investors that their money would help with the cash flow of the business, and that is what it went toward. He said Sigillito had more than $700,000 of his own money in the program and did what he could to salvage it. Sigillito faces 24 counts of wire fraud, mail fraud, conspiracy and money laundering.\
\
ST. CHARLES > Man accused of assaulting his wife - Hermes Mendez, 24, of St. Charles, was charged Monday with domestic assault, forcible sodomy and felonious restraint. Police said he tied up his wife and held her head underwater in a bathtub during the assault. The incident happened Saturday in the 700 block of Cunningham Avenue in two separate attacks. After Mendez left to go to the store, his 20-year-old wife was able to escape with the couple's two young children, who were in the home during the attacks. Mendez denied attacking his wife, saying she ties herself up sometimes. Authorities said Mendez is an illegal immigrant and would likely flee to his home country of Mexico. He was being held Monday in the St. Charles County Jail on $100,000 bail.\
\
Photo - Rodgers   \
\
Document SLMO000020120320e83k000gy\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b LOCAL DIGEST
\f1\b0 \
\
504 words\
20 March 2012\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
First Edition\
A3\
English\
Copyright 2012, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
ST. LOUIS > Third man charged in fatal home invasion - A man who police say was involved in a 2010 robbery and killing at a home in the 3900 block of Natural Bridge Avenue was arrested and charged Monday in connection with the crime. Kenneth L. Rodgers, 21, of the 4000 block of Lincoln Avenue in St. Louis, was charged in St. Louis Circuit Court with second-degree murder, four counts of first-degree robbery and five counts of armed criminal action. A judge ordered him held on $500,000 cash-only bail. Bryan D. Neal, 23, was killed in the Jan. 11, 2010, shooting and robbery. Two other men, Remus Raymond Moore and Larry Cloud Edwards Jr., pleaded guilty in May 2011 of second-degree murder and 11 other felonies in the incident. Moore, the shooter, was sentenced to life in prison. Edwards was sentenced to 25 years in prison.\
\
WASHINGTON PARK > Body of missing woman is found - The body of a missing Collinsville woman was found Monday in the 1700 block of North 62nd Street, police said. Jessica M. Williams' body was found about 11 a.m., the Major Case Squad of Greater St. Louis said. Williams was reported missing March 8. The cause of death was unclear, police said.\
\
ST. LOUIS > Trial begins for man accused of Ponzi scheme - Federal prosecutors on Monday began laying out their case against Martin Sigillito, an American Anglican bishop and Clayton lawyer accused of cheating up to 150 investors across the country in a $66 million Ponzi scheme.\
\
The trial, expected to last four weeks, will feature some of the upper crust of St. Louis society, members of the Racquet Club of St. Louis who say they trusted Sigillito with their money because of his lawyer credentials and impressive academic record - and because, according to prosecutors, he talked a good game. The mode for the fraud, according to prosecutors, was a lending project in England that was supposed to pay investors back through smart land purchases.\
\
Sigillito's attorney, Doug Roller, said the loan agreements told investors that their money would help with the cash flow of the business, and that is what it went toward. Sigillito faces 24 counts of wire fraud, mail fraud, conspiracy and money laundering.\
\
&NormalParagraphStyle;\
\
ST. CHARLES > Man accused of assaulting his wife - Hermes Mendez, 24, of St. Charles, was charged Monday with domestic assault, forcible sodomy and felonious restraint. Police said he tied up his wife and held her head underwater in a bathtub during the assault. The incident happened Saturday in the 700 block of Cunningham Avenue in two separate attacks. After Mendez left to go to the store, his 20-year-old wife escaped with the couple's two young children. Mendez denied attacking his wife, saying she ties herself up sometimes. Authorities said Mendez is an illegal immigrant and would likely flee to his native Mexico. He was being held in the St. Charles County Jail in lieu of $100,000 bail.\
\
Document SLMO000020120320e83k00094\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b House GOP blasts Senate tax cut bill Republicans want yearlong version with 'reasonable' cuts in spending.
\f1\b0 \
\
By ALAN FRAM \'95ssociated Press   \
1,291 words\
19 December 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
WASHINGTON - Top House Republicans rebelled Sunday against a bipartisan, Senate-approved bill extending both a Social Security payroll tax cut and jobless benefits for two months, reigniting a politically fueled holiday season clash that had seemed all but doused.\
\
The House GOP defiance cast uncertainty over how quickly Congress would forestall a tax increase otherwise heading straight at 160 million workers beginning New Year's Day. House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, said a deal could be finished within two weeks, which suggested that lawmakers might have to spend much of their usual holiday break battling one another in the Capitol.\
\
But the Senate adjourned Saturday and is not scheduled to conduct legislative work until late January. That could complicate quick work on a revised payroll tax bill because all 100 senators would have to agree to let the Senate hold any votes before then.\
\
A day after rank-and-file House GOP lawmakers used a conference call to spew venom against the Senate-passed bill, Boehner said he opposed the legislation and wanted congressional bargainers to craft a new, yearlong version.\
\
"The president said we shouldn't be going anywhere without getting our work done," Boehner said on NBC's "Meet the Press," referring to President Barack Obama's oft-repeated promise to postpone his holiday trip to Hawaii if the legislation was not finished. "Let's get our work done, let's do this for a year."\
\
A spokeswoman for House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Va., said the House would vote today to either request formal bargaining with the Senate or to make the legislation "responsible and in line with the needs of hardworking taxpayers and middle class families."\
\
Cantor spokeswoman Laena Fallon did not specify what those changes might be, beyond a longer-lasting bill. Boehner, though, expressed support for "reasonable reductions in spending" in a House-approved payroll tax bill and for provisions to block some anti-pollution rules.\
\
Democrats leaped at what they saw as a chance to champion lower- and middle-income Americans by accusing Republicans of threatening a wide tax increase unless their demands are met. If Congress doesn't act, workers will see their take-home checks cut by 2 percentage points beginning Jan. 1, when this year's 4.2 percent payroll tax is set to revert to its normal 6.2 percent.\
\
"They should pass the two-month extension now to avoid a devastating tax hike from hitting the middle class in just 13 days," said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. "It's time House Republicans stop playing politics and get the job done for the American people.\
\
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said that by opposing the Senate bill, "Tea Party House Republicans are walking away once again, showing their extremism and clearly demonstrating that they never intended to give the middle class a tax cut."\
\
Adam Jentleson, spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said Reid would be "happy to continue negotiating a yearlong extension as soon as the House passes the Senate's short-term, bipartisan compromise to make sure middle class families will not be hit by a thousand-dollar tax hike on January 1."\
\
Keeping this year's 2 percentage point payroll tax cut in effect through 2012 would produce $1,000 in savings for a family earning $50,000 a year. The two-month version would be worth about $170 for the same household.\
\
The House on Tuesday approved its version of the bill, which would extend the payroll tax cut through the end of 2012.\
\
On Saturday, the Senate voted 89-10 for its legislation, which was negotiated by Senate Republican and Democratic leaders and backed by solid majorities of senators from both parties. It would provide a two-month extension of the payroll tax cuts and jobless benefits and prevent scheduled 27 percent cuts to doctors' Medicare reimbursements during that period, reductions that could prompt physicians to stop treating patients covered by the program.\
\
That measure was praised by Obama, and even Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., expressed optimism that the measure would become law. Initial bills produced by both sides would have lasted for a year, but negotiators working on the final product could not agree to savings that would finance such a measure, likely to cost roughly $200 billion.\
\
Reid and Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., the No. 3 Senate leader, said Boehner had asked McConnell and Reid to negotiate a compromise, seemingly suggesting that Boehner had walked away from a deal. Republicans said that is untrue and said the House GOP played no role in last week's bargaining between the Senate leaders.\
\
The Senate bill included language cherished by Republicans giving Obama 60 days to approve an oil pipeline stretching from western Canada's tar sands to Texas Gulf Coast refineries, unless he declared that the project hurt the national interest. GOP leaders had thought that provision would assure enough votes to pass the overall legislation.\
\
Despite the Keystone XL pipeline provision, House Republicans used a Saturday conference call to express anger about the Senate bill and frustration that their leaders seemed willing to agree to the compromise, participants said.\
\
Many demanded a return to some of the House bill's spending cuts.\
\
COMPARING HOUSE, SENATE PAYROLL TAX CUT BILLS\
\
Highlights of legislation renewing payroll tax cuts, jobless benefits approved by the House and Senate:\
\
House bill, approved Tuesday\
\
- Price tag over $180 billion.\
\
- Keeps this year's 4.2 percent Social Security payroll tax rate paid by 160 million workers through the end of 2012, instead of rising to 6.2 percent on Jan. 1.\
\
- Extends expiring benefits for the long-term jobless through 2012, but at a maximum of 79 weeks of coverage, less in some cases, well below this year's 99-week limit. Revamps program to require beneficiaries without high school diplomas to seek an equivalent degree; lets states test applicants for illegal drug use.\
\
- Prevents 27 percent cut in Medicare payments to doctors for 2012.\
\
- Blocks White House rule curbing pollution from industrial boilers; extends tax break for businesses buying equipment for 2012.\
\
- Requires President Barack Obama to approve the Keystone XL oil pipeline within 60 days unless he declares the project would not serve the national interest.\
\
- Paid for by extending current pay freeze on civilian federal workers another year through 2013 and requires them to contribute more toward their pensions; raises fee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac charge for insuring mortgages; raises Medicare premiums paid by higher-income elderly; cuts some health care overhaul law programs; sells part of broadcast spectrum; prevents illegal immigrant parents from collecting child tax credit refund checks; bars food stamps, unemployment benefits for the wealthy.\
\
Senate bill, approved Saturday\
\
- Price tag $33 billion.\
\
- Extends 2-percentage-point cut in Social Security payroll tax through Feb. 29.\
\
- Renews benefits for the long-term unemployed at current levels through Feb. 29; no other changes in program.\
\
- Prevents 27 percent cut in Medicare payments to doctors; extends other health care fees through Feb. 29.\
\
- Same provision on Keystone as House.\
\
- Paid for by increasing home loan guarantee fees charged to mortgage lenders by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration by 0.1 percentage point. The fee would be passed on to homebuyers and woud apply to many new purchases and refinancings starting Jan. 1.\
\
ASSOCIATED PRESS/NBC NEWS House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, appears Sunday on "Meet the Press." He said he wants a yearlong version of the payroll tax cut extension bill.   \
\
Document SLMO000020111219e7cj0003u\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Justices go deeper in politics Supreme Court will hear challenge to Arizona immigration law.
\f1\b0 \
\
By MARK SHERMAN \'95ssociated Press   \
961 words\
13 December 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court stepped into the fight Monday over a tough Arizona law that requires local police to help enforce federal immigration laws - pushing the court deeper into hot, partisan issues of the 2012 election campaign.\
\
The court's election year docket now contains three politically charged disputes; the others are President Barack Obama's health care overhaul and Texas redistricting.\
\
The debate over immigration already is shaping presidential politics, and now the court is undertaking a review of an Arizona law that has spawned a host of copycat state laws targeting illegal immigrants.\
\
The court will review a federal appeals court ruling that blocked several provisions in the Arizona law. One of those requires that police, while enforcing other laws, question a person's immigration status if officers suspect he or she is in the country illegally.\
\
The case is the court's biggest foray into immigration law in decades, said Temple University law professor Peter Spiro, an expert in that area.\
\
The White House challenged the Arizona law by arguing that regulating immigration is the job of the federal government, not that of states. Similar laws in Alabama, South Carolina and Utah also are facing administration lawsuits. Private groups are suing over immigration measures adopted in Georgia and Indiana.\
\
"This case is not just about Arizona. It's about every state grappling with the costs of illegal immigration," Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, said after the court's announcement Monday.\
\
Fifty-nine Republicans in Congress, including presidential contender Michele Bachmann, filed a brief with the court backing the Arizona law.\
\
The immigration case, like the challenge to Obama's health care overhaul, pits Republican-led states against the Democratic administration in an argument about the reach of federal power. The redistricting case has a similarly partisan tinge to it, with Republicans who control the state government in Texas facing off against Democrats and minority groups that tend to vote Democratic.\
\
In the immigration arena, the states say that the federal government isn't doing enough to address a major problem and that border states are suffering disproportionately.\
\
The issue has been widely discussed by the Republican presidential hopefuls. They have mostly embraced a hard line to avoid accusations that they support any kind of "amnesty" for the some 12 million illegal immigrants estimated to be living in the U.S.\
\
Newt Gingrich was most recently criticized by his opponents for saying he would grant legal status to some with long-standing family and community ties, and Gingrich has since endorsed the South Carolina law that allows police to demand a person's immigration status. That law is among the four state laws that have been challenged by the White House.\
\
Brewer signed the Arizona immigration measure into law in April 2010. The administration sued three months later to block it from taking effect.\
\
In April, a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco upheld a federal judge's ruling halting enforcement of several provisions of the law. Among the blocked provisions: requiring all immigrants to obtain or carry immigration registration papers; making it a state criminal offense for an illegal immigrant to seek work or hold a job; and allowing police to arrest suspected illegal immigrants without warrants.\
\
In October, the federal appeals court in Atlanta blocked parts of the Alabama law that forced public schools to check the immigration status of students and allowed police to file criminal charges against people who were unable to prove their citizenship.\
\
Lawsuits in South Carolina and Utah are not as far along.\
\
The administration argued that the justices should have waited to see how other courts ruled on the challenges to other laws before getting involved. Still, after the court's announcement Monday, White House spokesman Jay Carney said, "We look forward to arguing our point of view in that case when the time comes."\
\
Spiro, the Temple University immigration expert, said the court easily could have passed on the Arizona case for now. "They could have waited for the more extreme case to come from Alabama, which really outflanked the Arizona law," Spiro said.\
\
He predicted the court would uphold the police check of immigration status but perhaps not the measure making it a crime to be without immigration documents.\
\
Arguments probably will take place in late April, which would give the court roughly two months to decide the case\
\
Justice Elena Kagan will not take part in the case, presumably because of her work on the issue when she served in the Justice Department.\
\
The case is Arizona v. U.S., 11-182.\
\
Hot topics on 2012 docket\
\
The court's election-year docket now contains three politically charged disputes:\
\
Arizona immigration law - The state now requires that police, while enforcing other laws, question a person's immigration status if officers suspect he or she is in the country illegally. The White House argues that regulating immigration is the job of the federal government, not that of states. Arguments will probably take place in late April.\
\
Texas redistricting - Texas and other Southern states have elections scheduled under redistricting plans that have not been approved under the Voting Rights Act. At the center of the dispute is federal protection for minorities' voting rights. Arguments have been scheduled for Jan. 9.\
\
Health care overhaul - The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act aims to provide health insurance to more than 30 million previously uninsured Americans. But Republicans have branded the law unconstitutional, largely because of its mandate for individuals to buy coverage. The court's ruling is expected before July 4.\
\
Document SLMO000020111213e7cd0003e\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b NATION DIGEST
\f1\b0 \
\
471 words\
28 November 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A5\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Occupiers sit pat; some plan party\
\
A deadline set for Occupy Philadelphia to leave the plaza it has occupied for about two months came and went as police watched nearly 50 demonstrators lock arms and sit at the entrance of Dilworth Plaza.\
\
"Right now, we have a peaceful demonstration," said Philadelphia Police Chief Inspector Joe Sullivan, nearly 45 minutes after the 5 p.m. deadline had come and passed. A police presence was unchanged, and no orders to leave had been issued.\
\
In Los Angeles, with the clock winding down on a midnight deadline to abandon their weeks-old Occupy Los Angeles protest, hundreds of demonstrators made plans instead to hold an "eviction block party."\
\
Holiday shopping pleases retailers - A record 226 million shoppers visited stores and websites during the four-day holiday weekend starting on Thanksgiving Day, up from 212 million last year, according to early estimates by the National Retail Federation. Americans spent more, too: The average holiday shopper spent $398.62 over the weekend, up from $365.34 a year ago.\
\
Oklahoma has 6th quake in 4 days - Another small earthquake has been reported in Oklahoma. The U.S. Geological Survey says a 3.2-magnitude quake struck just before 6 a.m. Sunday about 27 miles northeast of Oklahoma City. No damage was reported. Sunday's earthquake is the sixth in the area since Thursday, when a 3.7-magnitude quake was recorded near Prague.\
\
GOP Latinos face questions - More Latino Republicans are seeking and winning elected office, and their families' backgrounds are becoming the subject of increased scrutiny from some liberal Latino activists.\
\
New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez, a Republican and the nation's only Latina governor, recently found documents that suggested that her grandfather legally entered the country. Previous reports said her grandfather was an illegal immigrant. Marco Rubio, Florida's GOP senator, was accused of embellishing his family's immigrant story and later corrected his Senate website.\
\
Search widens for father in girl's death - The search for a New Jersey man charged with murder in the death of his 2-year-old daughter has gone nationwide. The FBI and U.S. Marshals Service are among agencies now involved in the search for Arthur Morgan III, 27, of Ocean Township. Morgan also was added as a featured fugitive on the "America's Most Wanted" TV show's website.\
\
Ohio takes obese boy from family - An Ohio third-grader, 8, who weighs more than 200 pounds has been put in foster care after county social workers said his mother wasn't doing enough to control his weight. The case is the first state officials can recall of a child's being put in foster care strictly for a weight-related issue.\
\
- Read the latest national news at stltoday.com/news/national.\
\
Document SLMO000020111130e7bs000g4\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b NATION DIGEST
\f1\b0 \
\
578 words\
4 November 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Second Edition\
A4\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
House committee backs bill to cut federal workforce\
\
A House committee has approved legislation that would require a 10 percent reduction in the federal civilian workforce by Sept. 30, 2014. Under the bill approved Thursday, an agency could replace only one of every three employees who retires.\
\
The Oversight and Government Reform Committee, citing figures from the Congressional Budget Office, said the bill was projected to save taxpayers $139 billion over 10 years. There currently are 1.8 million civilian federal workers.\
\
Occupy protesters disavow violence - Occupy Wall Street protesters had just a few hours to celebrate what they saw as their biggest victory so far: the peaceful shutdown of the Oakland, Calif., port, the nation's fifth-busiest. Then the rioting began. Demonstrators across the country condemned the violence Thursday and wondered whether it was a turn that would destroy their cause.\
\
Death toll from tainted cantaloupes hits 29 - The death toll from listeria-contaminated cantaloupes has reached 29, making it the deadliest food-borne outbreak in the United States since at least 1985, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC said that as of Nov. 1, 139 people in 28 states had been infected in the outbreak, attributed to cantaloupes from Jensen Farms in Colorado.\
\
Democrats urge state officials to oppose voter ID laws - House Democrats asked secretaries of state in all 50 states to oppose new voter identification laws, saying the laws threaten the right to vote for many Americans. The Democrats made the plea Thursday in a letter that had 196 House supporters, including delegates to U.S. territories.\
\
Central Park cleared for marathon - The thousands of runners in the New York City Marathon on Sunday will have a clear path through Central Park after workers removed branches and trees snapped by the late-October snowstorm.\
\
Head of public employee union to step down - The head of the nation's largest public employees union says he will step down next year. Gerald McEntee has guided the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees since 1981. He told members in a letter Thursday that he would not seek another four-year term.\
\
Public employee unions have spent the year battling efforts to curb their clout in state legislatures nationwide. McEntee, 76, led the union to spend about $90 million during the 2010 midterm elections, making it the largest outside spender on congressional campaigns.\
\
Man fakes illegal immigrant status to avoid jail - A Utah man hatched a creative scheme to avoid going to prison on a drug charge: He lied to authorities and said he was an illegal immigrant so he could get deported to Mexico and evade time behind bars. The jig was up, however, when Jaime Alvarado, 27, returned to the U.S. using his passport and was arrested again by Salt Lake City police.\
\
School bus-truck collision - Authorities say a school bus overturned on rainswept Interstate 65 in south-central Kentucky after a collision with a tractor-trailer that fled, sending 16 children and three adults to the hospital.\
\
Police reported injuries in Thursday's accident, but it wasn't immediately clear how many were hurt or how seriously. Kentucky State Police Trooper Jonathan Biven said the bus was carrying fourth-grade students, two teachers and their driver from a Louisville private school on a field trip to Mammoth Cave National Park.\
\
- Read the latest national news at stltoday.com/news/national\
\
Document SLMO000020111104e7b40003p\
\page \
\
\
A&E\

\f2\b Fact, fiction: Local authors write about illegal drug trade
\f1\b0 \
\
BY JANE HENDERSON  \'95ost-Dispatch Book Editor > jhenderson@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8107   \
1,426 words\
9 October 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Fourth Edition\
E1\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Two new books by local authors tell readers more than most ever knew - maybe ever wanted to know - about the illegal drug business.\
\
Tony D'Souza, an acclaimed young novelist, hasn't met Sylvia Longmire, an expert on Mexican drug cartels. But invite the two over for, um, coffee and you'd learn about middle-class marijuana couriers, pot fields in federal parks and the source of St. Louis' heroin problem.\
\
D'Souza's novel "Mule: A Novel of Moving Weight" just happens to be published at roughly the same time as Longmire's nonfiction "Cartel: The Coming Invasion of Mexico's Drug Wars." D'Souza, will discuss his novel Tuesday at Left Bank Books.\
\
His novel follows an underemployed writer whose pregnant girlfriend is laid off during the Great Recession. Unsure how to support a family, James and Kate move to a cheap cabin in northern California and become reacquainted with Kate's high school friend, whose family grows premium weed.\
\
In the first two dozen pages of "Mule," James learns how drug trafficking works. As a white guy, he doesn't fit the official profiles. He details the tricks - and the dangers:\
\
"I read stories about people who'd been busted. I learned never to drive at night, to check that all my lights were working every time I stopped for gas, to stay with the flow of traffic. If a cop started to tail me, I would have to be cool. If I got pulled over, I'd have to control any nervous tics. And the punishments? If caught with a pound in Arizona, I'd face a year and a half behind bars and a $150,000 fine. In New Mexico, eighteen months; in Texas, two years. I'd have a felony on my record and mountainous legal expenses. Forever after, I'd have trouble getting any kind of legitimate work."\
\
D'Souza, who moved to University City in August, admits that his previous novels share some parallels with him and his wife, Jessyka Lee. "Whiteman" (2006) involves a Peace Corps worker in Africa which D'Souza was; "The Konkans" (2008) is about an Indian-American family in Chicago, where D'Souza grew up.\
\
After the two books gained great reviews and generous advances, the recession hit publishing, and money for writers dwindled. Lee was pregnant with their first child when she got laid off from a retail job.\
\
"It was a good living until the recession hit," D'Souza says. "We've been hanging on."\
\
D'Souza, 36, stays at home with their two children, just 2 and 3, while Lee works toward her MFA at the University of Missouri-St. Louis.\
\
His wife is from California, and D'Souza said he "knows lots of people involved in the drug business."\
\
Some got involved as a side racket during the recession, he says.\
\
"There are all these people looking to get into it ... although I won't say it's an epidemic," he says.\
\
D'Souza is adamant that he's never smuggled drugs, but he playfully admits that he doesn't mind if people wonder about the parallels with his real life.\
\
"I want it to seem like it really happened," he says.\
\
"Mule" isn't as soap opera-ish as TV shows such as "Weeds" and "Breaking Bad."\
\
While talking by telephone from California, where he was promoting "Mule," he said he believes that readers can relate to the desperation and anger that would drive a young, unemployed college graduate to consider moving pounds of marijuana from California to dealers in Texas and beyond.\
\
"There's a level of anger out there. We didn't get involved with the game - the housing bubble, the stock market - but we were still affected by it," D'Souza says.\
\
Drug couriers make the most money for the least amount of work, he says, but it's a "Faustian bargain." Once they are used to earning the money and are closely involved with others in the drug trade, it can be hard to get out.\
\
"The drivers are making a lot of money, but are they living a serene, care-free life? No, they are looking over their shoulder," he says.\
\
D'Souza interviewed such people, and next month's issue of Mother Jones will feature a nonfiction story that D'Souza wrote about four who got involved in the drug trade because of the recession.\
\
After living in Florida, D'Souza has been delighted with his move back to the Midwest. He's working on a book about parenting.\
\
"People are so nice here," he says.\
\
Sure, they are, Sylvia Longmire might say. But she still doesn't want everyone to know exactly where she lives.\
\
Longmire's husband is a criminal investigator stationed at Scott Air Force Base. Now a freelance consultant who stays home with their two children, Longmire, 37, retired from the Air Force after she was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis.\
\
For two years, she's lived in this area, much farther from the Mexican border than when she worked as an analyst in California. But Midwesterners still shouldn't assume they have nothing to worry about from Mexican drug cartels.\
\
"Ninety percent of the drugs coming into St. Louis are from Mexico," she says. "They use St. Louis as a hub city for distribution."\
\
Local African-American and Hispanic gangs redistribute black tar heroin and weed to couriers, who move it to other places, she says. In a phone interview, she said: "You need to be very worried about it.\
\
"There aren't shootouts on Washington Avenue," she says. "But that doesn't mean they aren't present in our city or not using local homes for stashes. You'd be surprised by the nice homes they use to stash drugs."\
\
Spillover violence among gangs may not be linked to the Mexican cartels because the cartels stay under the radar here. If a criminal commits a crime against another criminal or an illegal immigrant, it's not likely to be reported to police. Longmire's housekeeper has lost two relatives to heroin overdoses.\
\
Missourians can also stumble upon plots of marijuana in public forests. Neighboring Arkansas is a top 10 state for outdoor marijuana production, she writes in "Cartel":\
\
"The best places to grow marijuana are between four thousand and six thousand feet above sea level, and all the states that made the top-ten list have lower-range mountainous regions that fit that description."\
\
Although cartel-run farms can be in isolated national forests, narcotics officers last year found plants in a city park near Fayetteville, Mo., which is in the Ozark foothills.\
\
The growers use powerful pesticides and fertilizers that seep into soil, and a hiker stumbling onto a field might be met by gun-carrying guards.\
\
Longmire writes: "Once a site is selected, the cartels bring in people and equipment to get things up and running. Drug gangs have imported marijuana experts and unskilled labor to help find the best land or build irrigation systems. Recruiting Mexican nationals to work these grows isn't difficult because the cartels bring them across the border and pay them a decent wage."\
\
Often the workers still have family in Mexico, so the recruiters use that to keep the farmers working - and quiet.\
\
Although Longmire favors legalizing marijuana, she says that wouldn't solve the drug problem because only about 50 percent of the cartels' money comes from drugs (they also make money by extortion, kidnapping, oil theft and media piracy). She blogs about how the Mexican drug problems affect the United States at borderviolenceanalysis.typepad.com.\
\
In Mexico, youths romanticize the wealthy drug dealers. Although D'Souza's "Mule" doesn't glamorize such life, Longmire isn't likely to read a novel about the drug trade for entertainment:\
\
"If I have time to read fiction, I stay far away from this kind of story."\
\
---\
\
Tony D'Souza with Richard Burgin\
\
When - 7 p.m. Tuesday Where - Left Bank Books, 399 North Euclid Avenue How much - Free More info - 314-367-6731; left-bank.com\
\
---\
\
'Mule' A novel by Tony D'Souza Published by Mariner, 292 pages, $14.95 (paperback)\
\
---\
\
'Cartel' By Sylvia Longmire Published by Palgrave Macmillan, 246 pages, $26\
\
Photo - D'Souza  Photo - Book cover of 'Mule' by Tony D'Souza  Photo - Book cover of 'Cartel' by Sylvia Longmire   \
\
Document SLMO000020111207e7a90000n\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b NATION DIGEST
\f1\b0 \
\
601 words\
1 September 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A7\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Half of Americans drink a soda a day\
\
Half of Americans drink a soda or sugary beverage each day, and one in 20 people drinks the equivalent of more than four cans of soda each day, according to figures released Wednesday by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. With the release of the report, a coalition of 100 organizations announced a new push to reduce the availability of the drinks in vending machines, and to make drinking soda as unfashionable as smoking.\
\
Healthy-eating recommendations call for people to limit sugary beverages to about 64 calories per day. That's a little less than half of a 12-ounce can of regular Coca-Cola, which is 140 calories. In other terms: An average can of sugared soda or juice has 10 to 12 teaspoons of sugar.\
\
Palin back on at Tea Party rally - After a series of reports that Sarah Palin's appearance at the Iowa Tea Party rally on Saturday had been called off, her staff said it was on hold, then was back on her schedule. Reportedly Christine O'Donnell, the former Republican U.S. Senate candidate in Delaware who has a new memoir out, told organizers that Palin wanted her to be on the program. But Palin had not been in touch with O'Donnell recently and did not appreciate the "misrepresentation." Organizers then disinvited O'Donnell.\
\
Black Caucus blasted by lone GOP member - Rep. Allen West of Florida, the only Republican member of the Congressional Black Caucus, threatened to quit the group over what he called "racially motivated rhetoric" by fellow caucus members aimed at the Tea Party.\
\
Petraeus leaves military - Gen. David Petraeus officially retired from the Army on Wednesday before becoming director of the CIA.\
\
Al-Qaida on 'steady slide' - White House counterterrorism chief John Brennan said al-Qaida is "on a steady slide" after the death of al-Qaida's latest second-in-command in Pakistan. Brennan said it's a "huge blow" in the first official White House comment since Atiyah Abd al-Rahman's reported killing by a CIA drone strike in Pakistan's tribal areas last week. "Al-Qaida is sort of on the ropes and taking a lot of shots to the body and the head," Brennan said.\
\
Asian carp targeted - Six attorneys general in the Great Lakes region called for a multistate coalition Wednesday that would push the federal government to protect the lakes from invasive species such as Asian carp by cutting off their artificial link to the Mississippi River basin.\
\
Obama's uncle in U.S. illegally - Records show that President Barack Obama's uncle, an illegal immigrant charged with drunken driving in Massachusetts last week, was ordered by an immigration judge in 1992 to leave the country. Onyango Obama, 67, is the half brother of the president's late father. He is originally from Kenya.\
\
JCPenney withdraws shirt - JCPenney has stopped selling a shirt after shoppers expressed outrage over what they called an inappropriate message. "I'm too pretty to do homework, so my brother has to do it for me," says the white long-sleeve shirt, which was intended for girls ages 7-16.\
\
A green garden - Wayne Sabaj of McHenry County, Ill., found two bags containing a total of $150,000 in his garden. He turned it over to police. Under an Illinois law - originally written to cover stray cattle - if nobody claims the money within one year, Sabaj will get it.\
\
- Read full versions of these stories and the latest national news at stltoday.com./news/national\
\
Document SLMO000020110901e7910006c\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Alabama law on illegals blocked Judge will review proposed immigration crackdown, decide whether it's constitutional.
\f1\b0 \
\
By JAY REEVES \'95ssociated Press   \
474 words\
30 August 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A11\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. - A federal judge temporarily blocked enforcement of Alabama's new law cracking down on illegal immigration, ruling Monday that she needed more time to decide whether the law - opposed by the administration of President Barack Obama, church leaders and immigrant rights groups - is constitutional.\
\
The brief order by U.S. District Judge Sharon Blackburn means the law, which opponents and supporters alike have called the toughest in the nation, won't take effect as scheduled on Thursday. The ruling was cheered both by Republican leaders who were pleased the judge didn't gut the law, and by opponents who compare it to old Jim Crow-era statutes against racial integration.\
\
Blackburn didn't address whether the law is constitutional, and she could still let all or parts of the law take effect later. Instead, she said she needed more time to consider lawsuits filed by the Justice Department, private groups and individuals that claim the state is overstepping its bounds.\
\
The judge said she would issue a longer ruling by Sept. 28, and her temporary order will remain in effect until the day after. She heard arguments from the Justice Department and others during a daylong hearing last week.\
\
Similar laws have been passed in Arizona, Utah, Indiana and Georgia. Federal judges already have blocked all or parts of the laws in those states.\
\
Among other things, the law would require schools to verify the citizenship status of students, but it wouldn't prevent illegal immigrants from attending public schools.\
\
The law also would make it a crime to knowingly assist an illegal immigrant by providing him or her with a ride, a job, a place to live or almost anything else - a section that church leaders fear would hamper public assistance ministries. It also would allow police to jail suspected illegal immigrants during traffic stops.\
\
Finding a way to curtail public spending that benefits illegal immigrants has been a pet project of Alabama conservatives for years. Census figures released earlier this year show the state's Hispanic population more than doubled over a decade to 185,602 last year, and supporters of the law contend many of them are in the country illegally.\
\
Isabel Rubio, executive director of the Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama, which is among the groups that sued over the law, hopes Blackburn will block it entirely but was happy with the temporary reprieve.\
\
"We are pleased that Judge Blackburn is taking more time to study the case," she said.\
\
Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican, said he would continue to defend the law, and GOP leaders in the Alabama House and Senate praised Blackburn - a Republican appointee - for taking time to fully consider the law.\
\
Document SLMO000020110830e78u0004a\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Illegal immigrant is lauded
\f1\b0 \
\
ASSOCIATED PRESS   \
174 words\
20 August 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A18\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. - The man who chased down a suspected child abductor and saved a 6-year-old girl from what could have been a horrible fate was honored as a hero Friday. But Antonio Diaz Chacon is also an illegal immigrant.\
\
Diaz Chacon, 23, is married to an American and has been in the country for four years, but he says he abandoned attempts to get legal residency because the process was difficult and expensive.\
\
Diaz Chacon's status didn't play a role in Albuquerque's decision to honor his bravery. Mayor Richard Berry declared Friday Antonio Diaz Chacon Day in Albuquerque and held an afternoon ceremony where he presented him a plaque recognizing his bravery in jumping in his pickup and chasing the suspect until he crashed into a light pole.\
\
For his part, Diaz Chacon said he didn't regret his actions. "I'm not worried. Why should I?" he said. "It's not like I committed a murder or a felony."\
\
Document SLMO000020110821e78k00093\
\page \
\
\
Go!\

\f2\b Invisible Latino laborers seek 'A Better Life' Director Chris Weitz adapts Italian film to story of LA immigrants. ** \'bd
\f1\b0 \
\
BY JOE WILLIAMS \'95ost-Dispatch Film Critic \'95oewilliams@post-dispatch.com  \'9514-340-8344   \
415 words\
15 July 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
G23\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Fewer and fewer filmgoers relate to the great melodramas of Italian neo-realism, so maybe now it's safe for a Hollywood hitmaker like Chris Weitz to adapt one of its milestone movies to the Mexican-American experience.\
\
Weitz has indulged in fantasy films ("The Golden Compass") and has profiled privileged whiners on both sides of the Atlantic ("American Pie," "About a Boy"). But here he turns his attention to his own backyard. Literally.\
\
This is a sentimentalized story about the ghostly gardeners (and dishwashers and dressmakers) who keep California's wealthy whites in the dark about economic inequities. Landscaper Carlos (Demian Bichir) lives in a one-bedroom hovel in east Los Angeles, far from the towering palm trees and green lawns he trims in the coastal suburbs.\
\
Carlos, a widower, hitches a ride with an enterprising friend and saves his money to make a better life for his son Luis (Jose Julian). Luis is the kind of Latino teen who doesn't speak Spanish and admires the local gangbangers more than he does his dad.\
\
When Carlos borrows heavily to buy a truck, he thinks it will win his son's respect. Instead the illegal immigrant's dream spins out of control, and he enlists the embarrassed boy to help him pick up the pieces.\
\
With its clockwork series of unfortunate events, this movie, loosely influenced by Vittorio De Sica's "Bicycle Thieves," unfolds like a fable instead of a believable slice of life. Mexican TV and film star Bichir gives a poignant performance, but he's distinctly more European than the cholos and Chicano laborers on the sketchy edges of the hero's plight.\
\
And while it's understandable that Weitz doesn't have an instinctive feel for the immigrant underclass, it's puzzling that he doesn't give us a glimpse of the "better life" to which Carlos aspires, the one that Weitz himself inhabits.\
\
Yet notwithstanding its modest scope, "A Better Life" richly documents the life of an invisible man.\
\
What "A Better Life" - Rating PG-13 - Run time 1:38 - Content Some strong language, violence and brief drug use - Where Plaza Frontenac\
\
Watch a trailer Use your smartphone to scan this QR code and watch a theatrical trailer for "A Better Life." stltoday.com/qrcodes\
\
Document SLMO000020110718e77f0005s\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Nation digest
\f1\b0 \
\
555 words\
9 July 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A5\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Deadly shooter had history of violence\
\
A Michigan man who killed seven people Thursday before turning his gun on himself had a history of threatening women, including his mother, and had been imprisoned on a road rage conviction, court records show.\
\
Police say Rodrick Shonte Dantzler, 34, targeted two former girlfriends in Thursday's rampage in Grand Rapids, Mich., fatally shooting both of them and five members of their families, including his own 12-year-old daughter. He also shot and wounded two other people - one of them another ex-girlfriend - while leading officers on a chase through Michigan's second-largest city.\
\
Dantzler killed himself after a standoff with police, when they cornered him in a house where he took several strangers hostage.\
\
Marijuana has no accepted medical use, feds rule - The federal government has ruled that marijuana has no accepted medical use and should remain classified as a dangerous drug like heroin.\
\
The decision, announced Friday, comes almost nine years after medical marijuana supporters asked the government to reclassify cannabis to take into account a growing body of worldwide research that shows its effectiveness in treating certain diseases, such as glaucoma and multiple sclerosis. Advocates for the medical use say they plan to appeal the ruling to the federal courts, where they believe they can get a fairer hearing.\
\
Alabama immigration law challenged - Civil rights groups sued Friday in federal court to block Alabama's new law cracking down on illegal immigration, which supporters and opponents have called the strictest measure of its kind in the nation. The lawsuit, filed in Huntsville, Ala., claims the new law will make criminals out of church workers who provide shelter to immigrants and even citizens who give their neighbors a ride to the store or to the doctor's office.\
\
Alabama's law, which takes effect Sept. 1, allows police to arrest anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant if the person is stopped for some other reason. It also requires businesses to check the legal status of new workers; makes it a crime to knowingly give a ride to an illegal immigrant; and makes it a crime for landlords to knowingly rent to illegal immigrants.\
\
United flight diverted to Cleveland - Authorities say a United Airlines flight headed from Chicago to Frankfurt, Germany, was diverted to Cleveland Friday and a passenger detained after an onboard disturbance.\
\
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport spokeswoman Jackie Mayo said the passenger had been acting suspiciously and would not comply with the flight crew's request to settle down. She said the pilot decided to land, and the passenger and his baggage were removed. She did not know if he had been charged and was not aware of any injuries. An FBI spokesman says the agency is investigating.\
\
Airline stowaway indicted - A federal grand jury on Friday indicted a Nigerian American man on stowaway charges after authorities say he breached multiple layers of airport security and got on a cross-country flight with an expired boarding pass.\
\
Oluwaseun Noibi, 24, was charged with one count of being a stowaway as well as one count of attempting to enter a secure area of an airport by fraud or false pretense. If convicted of both counts, Noibi could face up to 15 years in prison and a $500,000 fine.\
\
Document SLMO000020110710e77900091\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Rallying cry: 'Undocumented, unafraid' Many illegal immigrant high school youths are publicly announcing their status as they seek reform. ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
\f1\b0 \
\
BY KATE BRUMBACK \'95ssociated Press   \
743 words\
26 June 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A16\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
ATLANTA - Eighteen-year-old Dulce Guerrero kept quiet about being an illegal immigrant until earlier this year, when she became upset after a traffic stop that landed her mother in jail for two nights. The arrest came as Georgia lawmakers were crafting what would become one of the nation's toughest immigration crackdowns, and Guerrero feared her mother would be deported.\
\
"I feel like that was my breaking point, when my mom was in jail," said Guerrero, who came to the U.S. from Mexico when she was 2. "I felt like, well, that's it, it can't get any worse than this."\
\
Guerrero first publicly announced her immigration status at a protest in March, and now she's organizing a rally under the tutelage of more experienced activists who are themselves only a few years older. The high-stakes movement of young illegal immigrants declaring that they're "undocumented and unafraid" got a boost last week when a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist revealed he's been living in the country illegally.\
\
Guerrero is the chief organizer of a rally set for Tuesday at the Georgia State Capitol for high school-age illegal immigrants to tell their stories. The recent high school graduate and others hope to draw attention to the plight of the hundreds of thousands of young people who were brought to the U.S. illegally by their parents.\
\
Already around the country, efforts by young activists have ranged from rallies and letter-writing to sit-ins and civil disobedience, drawing inspiration from civil rights demonstrations decades ago, with the aim of forcing the federal government to reform rules for immigrants in their situation.\
\
In one of the most high-profile declarations yet, former Washington Post reporter Jose Antonio Vargas used an ABC News interview and a New York Times Magazine article to announce Wednesday that he is an illegal immigrant from the Philippines.\
\
"It's very exciting," said Mohammad Abdollahi, 25, a veteran protester who's helping Guerrero. Vargas' revelation "shows that we exist in all walks of life. Folks don't realize how American we are," he said.\
\
Some in the community fear Vargas' admission that he used false documents to get a drivers license and a job could invite backlash, but it illustrates the difficult reality for illegal immigrants seeking to pursue their goals, Abdollahi said.\
\
Guerrero's been working to attract participants for this week's rally by telling friends how relieved she felt after speaking out. But she never tries to push people to reveal they're in the U.S. illegally unless they're ready and understand the potential consequences.\
\
She's taking advice from Abdollahi and Georgina Perez, 22, who have both helped organize other protests and share similar backgrounds. Abdollahi was brought to the U.S. from Iran when he was 3 and was raised in Michigan; Perez arrived with her mother from Mexico at age 2, living first in Los Angeles and then near Atlanta.\
\
They offer Guerrero the perspective of activists willing to risk arrest - and the threat of deportation - for their beliefs. Abdollahi, who's been organizing protests since 2009, was held briefly with three others after they staged a sit-in at Arizona Sen. John McCain's office last year. Perez was arrested after she and six other young immigrants sat in a downtown Atlanta intersection and blocked traffic.\
\
Deportation proceedings were begun against Abdollahi but haven't progressed past the initial stages, while immigration authorities took no action against Perez.\
\
The administration of President Barack Obama hasn't promised not to deport young people in their situation, but Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has made it clear that they are not a priority.\
\
Still, the threat of being forced out of the country weighs heavily on those who announce their illegal status.\
\
"I was super nervous," Perez said, adding: "I had to do it because in order for students to come out, they need to see something; someone needs to set the example."\
\
Photo by David Goldman  Associated Press Photo -   Dulce Guerrero of Atlanta helps plan a rally where illegal immigrant high school students plan to tell their stories and "come out of the shadows." She and others hope to escalate their efforts to push for change.   \
\
Document SLMO000020110626e76q0003n\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Reporter reveals he is illegal immigrant ENTERTAINMENT
\f1\b0 \
\
By BRETT ZONGKER \'95ssociated Press   \
277 words\
23 June 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A19\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
WASHINGTON - A Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who covered the Virginia Tech massacre for the Washington Post went public Wednesday with a secret he has been keeping for nearly two decades: He is an illegal immigrant.\
\
Jose Antonio Vargas, whose mother sent him from the Philippines to live with his grandparents in California when he was 12, says he wants to push Congress to pass a bill called the DREAM Act that would allow people like him to become citizens if they go to college or serve in the military.\
\
"I'm done running. I'm exhausted," Vargas wrote in a New York Times Magazine essay posted online Wednesday. "I don't want that life anymore."\
\
Vargas referred a request for comment from the Associated Press to his public relations team, which did not immediately make him available Wednesday. He also spoke to ABC News in interviews that will air today and Friday.\
\
He says he didn't know about his citizenship status until four years after he arrived in the U.S., when he applied for a drivers permit and handed a clerk his green card.\
\
"This is fake," a Department of Motor Vehicles clerk said, according to Vargas' account. "Don't come back here again."\
\
Vargas confronted his grandfather, who acknowledged he purchased the green card and other fake documents.\
\
He convinced himself that if he worked hard enough and achieved enough, he would be rewarded with citizenship, Vargas wrote in the magazine piece.\
\
The Post originally planned to publish Vargas' story but decided not to. A spokesman would not say why.\
\
Document SLMO000020110623e76n0008o\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Nation Digest
\f1\b0 \
\
416 words\
10 June 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A19\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Panetta deflects questions on Afghanistan drawdown\
\
Leon Panetta, President Barack Obama's nominee to be secretary of defense, deflected persistent questions Thursday about one of the most pressing issues at the Pentagon, the scope of the American troop withdrawals from Afghanistan next month. Panetta, who is now director of the CIA, did say during his confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee that he agreed with a recent statement by Obama that the troop withdrawals should be "significant."\
\
Alabama enacts immigration law - Alabama's governor signed Thursday what is billed as the toughest immigration law in the nation. The law includes provisions requiring public schools to determine students' immigration status and making it a crime to knowingly give an illegal immigrant a ride.\
\
Palin emails being released - More than 24,000 pages of emails Sarah Palin sent as governor are to be released today in response to public records requests.\
\
Medical marijuana can cost a person a job - The Washington Supreme Court has ruled that employers can fire their workers for legally using medical marijuana even if it is used outside the workplace. The justices said in a 7-1 decision Thursday that nothing in state law protects employees who use medical marijuana.\
\
Ranger receiving Medal of Honor - An Army Ranger from New Mexico who lost his hand throwing a grenade away from two fellow soldiers in Afghanistan will become one of only two living service members awarded the elite Medal of Honor in the current round of conflicts, Army officials said Thursday. Sgt. 1st Class Leroy Petry will receive the nation's highest award for valor from President Barack Obama on July 12.\
\
Aide leaves White House - The former Navy fighter pilot who was an important terrorism-fighting official in the Bush and Obama administrations is resigning after 4\'bdears on the job, the White House said. Michael Leiter, director of the National Counterterrorism Center, is credited with helping put in place major reforms to better share intelligence.\
\
80th reunion - Cornell University's Class of 1931 held its 80th reunion. Thirty members are still alive and are known as "The Thirty-Wonders."\
\
New Apple headquarters - Apple is planning a new headquarters shaped like a spaceship, which it hopes will be the best office building in the world. The plans were unveiled in a surprise appearance by Apple CEO Steve Jobs before the Cupertino, Calif., City Council. "There is not a single straight piece of glass in this building," Jobs said.\
\
Document SLMO000020110610e76a0006f\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Illinois officials rethink immigration program Under proposal, counties could opt out of enforcement, as many offenders are arrested on only minor violations. LOCAL
\f1\b0 \
\
BY HANNAH HESS  \'95hess@post-dispatch.com > 217-782-4912   \
703 words\
13 April 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A6\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. - A federal immigration enforcement program designed to secure communities from the "worst of the worst" offenders also is snaring those arrested for minor crimes, prompting some Illinois officials to rethink the state's involvement.\
\
In the Metro East, as well as Chicago, anyone who enters a county jail is fingerprinted, then the person's records are cross-checked for immigration status. Under the program, local jails hold those who are illegal immigrants until they are taken into federal custody.\
\
"We just process them through the local charge, then (U.S. marshals) pick them up," said Madison County Sheriff Bob Hertz. "They'll be headed some place on a federal charge at that point."\
\
The immigrants taken into federal custody could be violent offenders, but immigrant rights groups decry the fact that 32 percent of the people put into deportation proceedings in Illinois - including all eight of the individuals booked in the Metro East - had no prior criminal record, here or abroad.\
\
Opponents of the program claim that under harsh enforcement, a minor traffic violation could send an illegal immigrant into deportation proceedings.\
\
"That person wasn't sent out of this country because they robbed a bank, or because they dealt drugs, or because they were a weapons runner," said Kane County Sheriff Pat Perez. "They were sent out of this country because they didn't have a valid drivers license and they were here illegally."\
\
Perez is asking the Legislature to grant Kane County permission to opt out of the federal program.\
\
Democratic Gov. Pat Quinn's office has expressed support for a proposal that would give all 26 counties currently sharing information with immigration enforcement officials the option to back out of their commitment.\
\
Democratic members of an Illinois House committee approved the measure last week, but it will likely face strong opposition from the state's GOP.\
\
"The fact is, these individuals have still broken the law as it pertains to the state of Illinois," said state Rep. Dan Brady, R-Bloomington, during a heated committee debate that centered on racial profiling and immigration reform.\
\
Metro East law enforcement officials said the program, which began in 2009, has been an effective tool for getting dangerous criminals off the streets and out of the country.\
\
Capt. Steve Johnson, a 22-year veteran of the St. Clair County Sheriff's Department, said Secure Communities has opened up a line of communication with the federal government that was previously out of the county's reach.\
\
"We weren't connected to the computers and we didn't have the communication," said Johnson. "We literally were just blinded to whether this person was a terrorist, or whether they were someone who's hiding out in this country who doesn't belong here."\
\
Madison County authorities are also pleased to be sharing fingerprints with the federal government, Hertz said.\
\
This week, he estimated that a dozen of the 273 people in his jail, roughly 5 percent, had been detained by immigration officials.\
\
"My personal belief is that people that aren't United States citizens should be dealt with," Hertz said. "We don't go out there and try to figure out who's not a United States citizen."\
\
Racial profiling is not the goal of the program, Hertz said. Instead, he added, it establishes a secure process for checking the immigration status of every person arrested.\
\
State Rep. Mike Bost, R-Murphysboro, who voted no on the legislation in committee said that sheriffs statewide have the responsibility to uphold federal commitments, regardless of their personal beliefs about immigration policy.\
\
"When our sheriffs take an oath of office, they take an oath to uphold the laws of the state of Illinois, the federal Constitution and the Constitution of the state of Illinois," Bost said. "They don't get to select whether it's civil or criminal - it's the law. Based on that, they should stay in the program and fulfill the requirements of the program."\
\
The bill is HB929.\
\
Document SLMO000020110413e74d0002u\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b DIGEST - NATION
\f1\b0 \
\
822 words\
2 February 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A15\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Illegal immigrant numbers unchanged\
\
After two years of declines, the number of illegal immigrants living in the United States was virtually unchanged last year, according to a report released Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center.\
\
The annual report, relied upon by both sides in the contentious immigration debate, found 11.2 million illegal immigrants living in the U.S., statistically identical to the 11.1 million estimated in 2009. The number peaked in 2007 at 12 million and dropped steadily as the economy collapsed.\
\
Northern border unwatched - Americans face a high risk of terrorist activity along the U.S.-Canadian border, where less than 1 percent of the 4,000-mile stretch is adequately protected, according to a government report released Tuesday.\
\
The GAO report says Customs and Border Protection believes it can detect illegal entries, respond and deal with them on only about 32 miles of the northern border. It says the Border Patrol was aware of all illegal border crossings on only 25 percent of the border, or 1,007 out of 4,000 miles.\
\
More-modest body scan tested - The Transportation Security Administration has tested a new, more modest body scanning system at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas. The TSA is trying to determine whether it can improve privacy protections and maintain the same security levels.\
\
Energy corridor rejected - A federal court rebuffed on Tuesday the U.S. Department of Energy's attempt to establish national energy corridors for new high-voltage electric transmission lines that would cover 100 million acres in 10 states, including state and national parks in the Mojave Desert.\
\
The three-judge panel from the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled 2 to 1 that the energy agency failed to adequately consult affected states or conduct federally mandated environmental reviews.\
\
'Worst-case housing' increases - Rising rents and high unemployment caused more than 7 million U.S. households to either live in substandard dwellings or pay more than half of their monthly income for rent in 2009, according to a new federal report. These low-income households with "worst-case housing needs" increased 20 percent from 2007.\
\
'Jihad Jane' pleads guilty - A woman from Pennsylvania who called herself "Jihad Jane" online pleaded guilty to her role in a plot to kill a Swedish cartoonist who had offended Muslims. Colleen LaRose, 47, helped foreign terrorism suspects intent on starting a holy war in Europe and South Asia, prosecutors said.\
\
Shrimping reopening in gulf - A 4,200-square-mile area of the Gulf of Mexico near BP's blown-out well will reopen to deep-water shrimping after federal scientists found the fishing grounds free of oil. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says it will reopen the area in federal waters off Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama today.\
\
Bush daughter backs gay marriage - Former President George W. Bush's daughter Barbara has announced her support for gay marriage, breaking with her father on a key social issue but joining her mother and other prominent Republicans who back same-sex unions.\
\
The Human Rights Campaign, a national gay rights organization, released a video Tuesday featuring the 29-year old Bush, a New York resident who runs Global Health Corps, a nonprofit public health organization.\
\
Suspected Nazi dies - A man from Bellevue, Wash., who was facing potential deportation and loss of his U.S. citizenship because he was allegedly a member of a Nazi death squad in World War II has died. Peter Egner, 88, died Jan. 19 of natural causes, officials said.\
\
Senate race set in Montana - U.S. Rep. Denny Rehberg will announce on Saturday his plans to run against Montana Sen. Jon Tester in 2012, setting up a match-up between the Republican congressman and first-term Democrat that is likely to be one of the most hotly contested Senate races of 2012, a source said. Bozeman businessman Steve Daines will announce Thursday that he will drop out of the Republican primary for Senate and instead run for the House seat to be vacated by Rehberg.\
\
Ensign faces third investigation - The Senate Ethics Committee announced that it has named a special counsel to help determine whether to bring formal charges against Sen. John Ensign, R-Nev., who has been accused of using his political influence to help cover up an affair he had with the wife of a former top aide.\
\
Ensign, who is up for re-election in 2012, has been cleared by investigators at the Department of Justice and the Federal Election Commission.\
\
- These stories and the latest national and international news can be found at stltoday.com/news/national.\
\
Photo by Darron Cummings \'95ssociated Press The Rev. John Hollowell comforts Sgt. Jo Moore as they look over memorials to Moore's son, Indianapolis police Officer David Moore, at his funeral service Tuesday in Indianapolis. David Moore, 29, was fatally shot on Jan. 23 during a traffic stop.   \
\
Document SLMO000020110202e7220004l\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Effort targets kids of illegals Conservative state lawmakers aim to cancel citizenship.
\f1\b0 \
\
From news services   \
793 words\
6 January 2011\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2011, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
WASHINGTON - Conservative lawmakers from five state legislatures launched a joint campaign Wednesday afternoon to try to cancel automatic U.S. citizenship for the American-born children of illegal immigrants.\
\
It is part of the conservative Republicans' promised attack on "anchor babies" that included U.S. Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, marking his first day Wednesday night as chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration by introducing a bill to eliminate birthright citizenship for children of illegal immigrants. "This isn't what our Founding Fathers intended," he told politico.com.\
\
The state legislators used a news conference in Washington to unveil two model measures they said would be introduced in at least 14 states. One was a bill clarifying the terms of citizenship in those states to exclude babies born in the United States of illegal immigrant parents. The second was a compact among states to adopt common positions on the issue.\
\
The lawmakers acknowledged that the state bills were not likely to have a practical impact anytime soon because they would be quickly challenged as unconstitutional. But the legislators - from Arizona, Georgia, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and South Carolina - said they chose the inaugural day of a new, Republican-controlled House of Representatives to open the first round of litigation they hope will lead to the Supreme Court and also spur action by lawmakers in Washington.\
\
"We are here to send a very public message to Congress," said Daryl Metcalfe, a Republican state representative from Pennsylvania. "We want to bring an end to the illegal alien invasion that is having such a negative impact on our states."\
\
The state lawmakers' initiative put the highly emotional issue of birthright citizenship, which had long been marginal in the immigration debate, at the front of the Republicans' immigration agenda as the new Congress gets under way. A study released in August by the Pew Hispanic Center found that about 340,000 children were born to illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008 and became instant citizens.\
\
The right to U.S. citizenship for everyone born on American soil is described in the 14th Amendment to the Constitution. The state legislators argued that certain phrases in the amendment signal that it was not intended to apply to children of immigrants who do not have lawful status.\
\
Opponents of changing the status quo argue that determining American citizenship is clearly a federal matter in which states have no legal role.\
\
Because the federal government decides who is to be deemed a citizen, the state lawmakers are considering instead a move to create two kinds of birth certificates in their states, one for the children of citizens and another for the children of illegal immigrants. The theory is that this could spark a flurry of lawsuits that might resolve the legal conflict in their favor.\
\
Most scholars of the Constitution consider the states' effort to restrict birth certificates patently unconstitutional.\
\
"This is political theater, not a serious effort to create a legal test," said Gabriel J. Chin, a law professor at the University of Arizona whose grandfather immigrated to the United States from China at a time when ethnic Chinese were excluded from the country. He called the effort "unconstitutional."\
\
But conservatives contend that the issue is unsettled. Kris Kobach, the incoming secretary of state in Kansas and a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City who has helped draft many of the tough immigration regulations across the country, argued that the approach the states were planning would hold up to scrutiny.\
\
"I can't really say much more without showing my hand," Kobach said. "But, yes, I am confident that the law will stand up in court."\
\
The 14th Amendment, adopted in 1868, was a repudiation of the Supreme Court's 1857 ruling, in Dred Scott v. Sandford, that people of African descent could never be American citizens. The amendment said citizenship applied to "all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof."\
\
In 1898, the Supreme Court, in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, interpreted the citizenship provision as applying to a child born in the United States to a Chinese immigrant couple.\
\
In April, U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., one of those pushing for congressional action on the issue, stirred controversy when he suggested that children born in the United States to illegal immigrants should be deported with their parents until the birthright citizenship policy was changed.\
\
"And we're not being mean," Hunter told a Tea Party rally in Southern California. "We're just saying it takes more than walking across the border to become an American citizen."\
\
Document SLMO000020110106e7160002w\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Immigration activists regroup after setback Young Latinos fighting for legal status face tougher foes in next Congress. WASHINGTON
\f1\b0 \
\
By AMY TAXIN \'95ssociated Press   \
638 words\
20 December 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
LOS ANGELES - Emboldened by months of phone calls to lawmakers, hunger strikes and sit-ins, a group of college students and graduates in Los Angeles say they plan to take their fight for immigrant rights to the states and the 2012 election after Senate Republicans blocked a key piece of legislation.\
\
But it won't be easy.\
\
The Senate vote Saturday to toss the proposal that would have granted young illegal immigrants a route to legal status dealt a harsh blow to student activists who will face an even steeper uphill battle in the next Congress.\
\
Immigrants see rough times ahead in the next two years, with many Republicans vowing to push for tougher immigration enforcement, but they also say Latino voters are getting fed up with lawmakers at a time when they are accruing greater political clout.\
\
"This is a movement," said Nancy Meza, 23, an illegal immigrant and college graduate. "We don't have lobbyists and paid staff. It's a movement by students."\
\
In the hours after the vote, Meza and about 50 other student activists who had gathered at the UCLA Downtown Labor Center said they would remind Latinos who stood by them in the next election cycle. They will push for access to financial aid and drivers licenses in states more friendly to immigrants, such as California.\
\
Few said the legislation had a chance in the next two years with Republicans taking control of the House of Representatives and a shrinking Democratic majority in the Senate. But they said that wouldn't derail the networks they had set up across the country to support illegal immigrant students and help them reveal their status.\
\
Some at the UCLA center, including university student Leslie Perez, 22, wept as they watched the vote on a big screen.\
\
Minutes after it was over, many took to the streets of Los Angeles, chanting "undocumented and unafraid."\
\
Republicans might consider some kind of measure to help the students, but it would probably be much narrower, said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates stricter limits on immigration.\
\
"This has a real demoralizing effect," Krikorian said of the student activists. "There's only so long you can keep up these hunger strikes and all this political theater they've been engaging in, especially if there's no specific target."\
\
Another challenge is students could wind up feeling excluded when they can't work after graduation, despite their political activism.\
\
"It may alienate the group we most want to incorporate," said Louis DeSipio, a professor of political science at the University of California-Irvine.\
\
Immigrant rights groups said they planned to turn up the pressure on President Barack Obama's administration to slow deportations, end local police enforcement of immigration laws and look out for the students, many of whom publicly revealed their immigration status over the last few months.\
\
Students also said they planned to fight for immigrant benefits locally as they have seen anti-illegal immigration activists do to pass tougher enforcement measures in states such as Arizona.\
\
The legislation would have provided a route to legal status for immigrants who were brought to the United States before age 16, have lived in the country for five years, graduated from high school or gained an equivalency degree and who joined the military or attend college.\
\
It targeted the most sympathetic of the 10 million to 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States - those brought to the country as children.\
\
Photo from Associated Press College students (from left) Martha Vasquez, Jessica Ortiz and Miriam Vasquez follow the Senate vote on television Saturday. The three women are illegal immigrants.   \
\
Document SLMO000020101220e6ck0005p\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b PEOPLE ENTERTAINMENT
\f1\b0 \
\
Compiled by Ted Rodgers (St. Louis Post-Dispatch)   \
390 words\
10 December 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A23\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Snipes reports to jail\
\
Actor Wesley Snipes started his three-year sentence for tax evasion, reporting Thursday to a minimum security prison in Pennsylvania. He spent two years fighting his 2008 conviction for failing to file tax returns and recently lost an appeal and a request for a retrial.\
\
Brenda Starr is going away - Ace reporter Brenda Starr will retire on Jan. 2. The comic strip, created by Dale Messick, will cease publication after 70 years, Tribune Media Services announced on Thursday.\
\
Zuckerberg - Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg accepted the Giving Pledge, joining 56 other wealthy Americans in pledging to give most of their wealth to charity. The Giving Pledge was founded by Bill Gates and Warren Buffett in June. Zuckerberg is said to be worth $7 billion.\
\
Salma Hayek speaks out - Actress Salma Hayek told the Spanish magazine V, "I was an illegal immigrant in the United States. It was for a small period of time, but I still did it."\
\
TV TALK\
\
Gail Pennington reported:\
\
- At stltoday.com/chat: Virgina Kerr of KMOV (Channel 4) is on maternity leave.\
\
- "Christmas in Connecticut" was finally scheduled for airing this holiday season. AMC listed it on Dec. 20 at 12:30 a.m. and 3:15 p.m.\
\
- Coach Bieste on "Glee" is played by Dot-Marie Jones, an actress and a woman.\
\
- On "Arthur," it was sad when the aardvark battled substance abuse, for sure.\
\
- At facebook.com/tubetalkpd: Who thinks this week's elimination on "Top Chef: All-Stars" was entirely based on underseasoned eggs? It doesn't pay to call out the judges.\
\
- At twitter.com/gailpennington: Interesting that the Whiffenpoofs (eliminated this week on NBC's "The Sing Off") call themselves "the Whiffs." I'd been calling them "the Poofs."\
\
CONCERT ANNOUNCEMENTS\
\
Reported by Kevin. C. Johnson at stltoday.com/blender:\
\
- Old Rock House will present Mac Miller on Feb. 16 and Miniature Tigers on March 15.\
\
- Fitz and the Tantrums will perform at Blueberry Hill's Duck Room on Feb. 12.\
\
- The J\'e4ermeister Music Tour with Buckcherry will play Pop's on Feb. 4.\
\
- At twitter.com/kevincjohnson: Diddy album shockingly listenable.\
\
CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS\
\
Actress Gloria Loring is 64. Actress Susan Dey is 58. Actor Kenneth Branagh is 50. Actress Raven-Symone is 25.\
\
Document SLMO000020101210e6ca000b5\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Ex-liquor agent is sent to prison E. St. Louis' Walter Hill gets five years from federal judge who says city needs hope against corruption.
\f1\b0 \
\
BY TIM O'NEIL  \'95oneil@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8132   \
694 words\
13 November 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A2\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
East St. Louis - A former city liquor agent who confessed shakedowns was given an unusually stiff sentence Friday of five years in prison - a penalty the judge called necessary to give residents "a semblance of hope" against corruption.\
\
Walter D. Hill, 32, the former deputy liquor commissioner, also faces fines and three years of probation upon completing his prison term. Federal guidelines call for a normal maximum of about 3 1/2 years in prison, but U.S. District Judge Michael J. Reagan said the tougher sentence is appropriate because of East St. Louis' history of crooked officials.\
\
"This is a city where this court invariably has some sort of public corruption case on the docket or under investigation," Reagan said in his courtroom. "If ever there was a community that needed a semblance of hope, it's East St. Louis. ... We are dealing with a fragile community. They need to be able to at least trust their public officials."\
\
Mayor Alvin Parks Jr., who by his office is liquor commissioner, created the job of deputy and gave it to Hill, a former adviser and fundraiser in Parks' 2007 mayoral campaign.\
\
Federal agents raided the city liquor license office in April 2009, and Hill was indicted that August for crimes in 2008-09. Five months ago, Hill pleaded guilty of attempted extortion and making false statements to federal agents.\
\
Among the accusations were that he shook down a liquor store operator who was an illegal immigrant, sexually harassed the female operator of a strip club and routinely seized bottles of liquor from clubs and stores. His victims "even knew the brand he drank," Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Weinhoeft said in court.\
\
Shortly before sentence was imposed, Hill told Reagan, "I stand before you today very sorry, very embarrassed and ashamed of my actions. I apologize to my community, my family and, most importantly, my children."\
\
Hill, of Belleville, is the father of two. He grew up in East St. Louis and has a master's degree. Adam Fein, his lawyer, urged Reagan to impose a lighter sentence, noting that Hill has given blood 37 times to help an unrelated child who has a blood disease.\
\
"There is much good in Mr. Hill," Fein said.\
\
But prosecutor Weinhoeft said that Hill lied to federal agents and has continued to receive state unemployment benefits, even after he pleaded guilty in June.\
\
"It's his arrogance, his sense of entitlement," Weinhoeft said. "He uses his power to walk around with his hand out."\
\
Weinheoft said Hill told investigators that Parks gave him full power to enforce the city's liquor code and that the mayor knew nothing of his crimes. Fein sought to downplay Hill's actual power, noting that Parks still has to sign liquor licenses.\
\
Parks was unavailable for comment after the hearing, which ended about 4 p.m.\
\
Last week, a federal grand jury indicted Albert C. Thompson, 31, of Edwardsville, on a charge of attempted extortion. Weinhoeft alleged Friday that Thompson served as Hill's "bag man" in his shakedown schemes.\
\
Reagan ordered Hill into immediate custody, rejecting Fein's plea to allow him to remain free. Reagan also ordered him to pay a fine of $2,500 and restitution of $500 to a shakedown victim, and $520 to a club from which he had taken liquor.\
\
Under normal federal rules, Hill will have to serve 85 percent, or slightly more than four years of his sentence. Fein said he will appeal the sentence.\
\
Earlier this week, the female strip-club operator testified that Hill frequently touched himself lewdly during a private meeting in City Hall while also threatening her club's liquor license.\
\
Friday's continuation of the lengthy sentencing hearing was filled with the much drier arguments of Weinhoeft for an enhanced sentence, and Fine arguing against it. Federal rules impose a series of legal tests to justify a longer sentences.\
\
Document SLMO000020101116e6bd0000h\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Immigration issue clouds custody fight Guatemalan ambassador weighs in on system's shortcomings. STL THURSDAY
\f1\b0 \
\
Tony Messenger  \'95messenger@post-dispatch.com  >  573-635-6178   \
802 words\
11 November 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A15\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
JEFFERSON CITY - Francisco Villagran de Leon is a man who chooses his words carefully.\
\
That's the nature of his job in international relations, where every word can be parsed to the advantage or disadvantage of one's country.\
\
Villagran de Leon is Guatemala's ambassador to the United States. On Tuesday he had a front-row seat to the debate over America's problem with illegal immigration as it played out in the Missouri Supreme Court.\
\
The case involved a custody battle between a Guatemalan woman, Encarnacion Romero, and a couple from Carthage, Mo., Seth and Melinda Moser. They are fighting over who will raise the child Romero gave birth to and the Mosers have raised since he was 1.\
\
That's when Romero was jailed after a raid of a Barry County chicken plant.\
\
She was, and is, an illegal immigrant who like millions of others came to this country seeking work. She used somebody else's identification so she could get paid.\
\
Romero faces deportation, but that's not why Villagran de Leon was in court. He was here, he said, because of a broken immigration policy that all too often splits up families and heaps tragedy upon tragedy.\
\
"It's very troubling to see a mother lose her child because she's taken into custody for violation of immigration laws," Villagran de Leon told reporters.\
\
He looks the part of an ambassador, tall with distinguished gray hair and matching, tightly trimmed beard. On Tuesday he wore a fine gray wool suit, with a neatly knotted blue tie matching a thin splash of color in the threading of his jacket.\
\
He was careful to say that the federal government is cooperating in delaying Romero's deportation so her custody battle can be settled. But when it comes to his thoughts on the case, Villagran de Leon let loose with a verbal volley.\
\
"We are deeply concerned that there is prejudice against foreigners," he said.\
\
That prejudice, Villagran de Leon said, was manifested when a woman who didn't speak English lost her child while she was in jail for a crime that in the eyes of the Supreme Court is no longer a crime.\
\
Romero's inability to speak English is a key to the debate in the case.\
\
In fact, at the time the chicken plant was raided in May 2007, the Missouri Legislature was busy debating a bill that asked state voters to make English the state's official language. That bill, which ultimately passed, was part of a national movement to bring attention to the country's illegal immigration problems.\
\
At a time when Congress couldn't decide what to do about the issue, the raids were coordinated to show that the government was doing something.\
\
The result was that mixed families of citizens and noncitizens were torn apart, said Yolanda Lorge, a Hispanic activist in Springfield, Mo., who serves as an interpreter in courts in Southwest Missouri. She stood in court with many of the immigrants - some of them citizens - detained in the 2007 Barry County raid.\
\
Many arrested in these cases don't understand what's happening to them. And because they're afraid of what might happen to undocumented family members, the question of what they should tell law enforcement about who is caring for their children becomes tricky.\
\
"In some of these cases, even if they had a relative, they didn't want to get them involved," Lorge said. "They are afraid. Anybody can intimidate them."\
\
That's precisely what happened in the case of Romero, Villagran de Leon argued to reporters after her case was heard by Missouri's highest court.\
\
"They feared for themselves. They feared for their children," the ambassador said. "They were intimidated into giving the child away."\
\
Regardless of the "English-only" provision in the Missouri Constitution, the judges on the state's Supreme Court indicated that the question of whether Romero understood what was happening to her will be key to their decision in the case.\
\
America's legal system cannot work, some of the judges said, if those participating in it don't understand what's happening.\
\
The judges who sat across the room Tuesday from three parents fighting over the same child face a dilemma. In the end, that child is going home with somebody.\
\
The dilemma facing the country is the same as it was in 2007. What to do about America's immigration policy? Villagran de Leon didn't say what he thought the solution should be, but his challenge was obvious: Whatever the solution, remember the 4-year-old boy caught in the crossfire.\
\
Document SLMO000020101111e6bb00062\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Noncitizen vets face deportation Law passed in 1996 expanded crimes for which they could be expelled. THE MILITARY
\f1\b0 \
\
By JULIANA BARBASSA \'95ssociated Press   \
859 words\
25 October 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A11\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
SAN FRANCISCO - When Rohan Coombs joined the Marine Corps, he never thought one day he would be locked up in an immigration detention center and facing deportation from the country he had vowed to defend.\
\
Coombs, 43, born in Jamaica, immigrated to the United States legally as a child with his family. He signed up to serve his adopted nation for six years - first in Japan and the Philippines, then in the Persian Gulf during the first war with Iraq.\
\
As many as 8,000 noncitizens enlist in the U.S. armed forces every year and serve alongside American troops. As of May 2010, there were 16,966 noncitizens on active duty. The military does not allow illegal immigrants to enlist.\
\
If noncitizens die while serving, they are given citizenship and a military funeral. If they live and get in trouble with the law, as Coombs did, they can get caught in the net of a 1996 immigration law that greatly expanded the list of crimes for which noncitizens can be deported.\
\
Now advocates of noncitizen servicemen and women are trying to change that. Attorneys are taking cases such as Coombs' to court, arguing that an immigrant who serves in the armed forces should be considered a U.S. national and protected from deportation.\
\
Rep. Bob Filner, D-Calif., chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, is looking into potential changes to the law so immigrants who serve in the military can avoid deportation.\
\
"You come back from Iraq or Afghanistan today, you have put yourself on the line for this country," said Filner. "An incredible number of kids come back with an injury or illness that puts them in trouble with the law. To simply have these people deported is not a good way to thank them for their service."\
\
Advocates estimate that thousands of veterans have been deported or are in detention. Government officials say they have no tally but plan to begin tracking the numbers.\
\
Coombs spent 10 months in the Persian Gulf and lost friends to combat, he said. After the war, he felt depressed and anxious. His family was far away in New York. He got involved with drugs, and he got caught.\
\
In 1992, he was court-martialed for possession of cocaine and marijuana with the intent to distribute, and was given 18 months of confinement and a dishonorable discharge. In 2008, he was busted for selling marijuana. He spent eight months in state prison.\
\
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement found that his convictions made him eligible for deportation, and he was turned over to ICE after serving his sentence. He has been held in a San Diego immigration detention center for 22 months and is appealing to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.\
\
On the other side of the country, Dardar Paye is appealing his deportation case to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.\
\
Paye came to the U.S. from war-torn Liberia as a 13-year-old. He joined the Army in 1998, serving in Kuwait and then in a NATO peacekeeping mission in Kosovo. He returned to New Jersey, where his family lives, to spend another year and a half with the Army National Guard.\
\
In 2008, he was convicted of six weapons-related offenses, including two involving firearms dealing, and served time in federal prison. Now, like Coombs, he is facing deportation.\
\
"When I was in Kuwait, in Kosovo, I was like everyone else who was there, putting their lives on the line," said Paye, who in the Army was an armored vehicle crewman. "Now I feel like they just used me for what they wanted, and now they're throwing me away."\
\
Advocates and immigration attorneys say that before the 1996 Illegal Immigrant Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, few immigrant veterans were deported, because immigration authorities could take their service into consideration.\
\
The law added crimes such as drug possession for sale to the list of serious crimes that could lead to deportation of a legal immigrant.\
\
"Drugs, anger management, weapons charges, that's what a lot of vets are getting caught for, and there is no relief," said Margaret Stock, a recently retired Army reservist and immigration attorney who taught at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. "The 1996 law really put the nails in their coffin."\
\
The military has started to offer a fast-track to citizenship to immigrants currently serving. Now, most joining the Army can expect to be citizens by the end of basic training. Other branches are expected to join the effort by the end of the year. That doesn't extend to those who have already served, such as Paye and Coombs.\
\
"If I had died," said Coombs, they would have made me a citizen, given me a military funeral, and given the flag to my mom. But I didn't die. Here I am. I just want another chance."\
\
Photo - Coombs Served in Persian Gulf   \
\
Document SLMO000020101025e6ap00039\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Ex-congressman still in limelight in intern's murder Gary Condit may testify in trial of illegal immigrant charged in 2001 slaying.
\f1\b0 \
\
By MATTHEW BARAKAT \'95ssociated Press   \
800 words\
18 October 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A11\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
WASHINGTON - If one person is associated with the mysterious slaying of Washington intern Chandra Levy, it isn't the man who will soon be tried on charges he murdered her. It's former California congressman Gary Condit, whose political career imploded after he was romantically linked to the woman and became the No. 1 suspect.\
\
Ingmar Guandique, an illegal immigrant from El Salvador, goes on trial today for Levy's killing in 2001. However, he's not even a blip on the national consciousness of the case, which dominated news coverage until the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks rendered it an afterthought.\
\
While police no longer believe Condit had anything to do with Levy's death, his presence will continue to hang over the trial. Condit's spokesman, Bert Fields, said Condit expected to be called as a witness at Guandique's trial, though he has not been subpoenaed.\
\
Fields said Condit would cooperate fully with authorities. But the ex-congressman, who is writing a book about his experience, will not comment on the trial until it ends.\
\
Bill Miller, a spokesman for the prosecutors' office, declined to comment on the case and whether Condit would be called as a witness, citing a gag order issued this month.\
\
Defense attorneys are also subject to the gag order. But when Guandique was charged last year with Levy's murder, they criticized what they saw as a botched investigation. Guandique escaped scrutiny in large part because of the frenzy around Condit. The former congressman never admitted an affair but said he was friends with Levy, though the intern had told family members the two had a romantic relationship.\
\
"This flawed investigation, characterized by the many mistakes and missteps of the Metropolitan Police Department and every federal agency that has attempted to solve this case, will not end with the simple issuance of an arrest warrant against Mr. Guandique," said the attorneys, Santha Sonenberg and Maria Hawilo.\
\
Questionable tactics\
\
At a pretrial hearing Thursday, Sonenberg said police were so desperate to get a confession from Guandique to bolster their case that in 2004 and 2005, police tried to establish a phony pen pal relationship with Guandique while he was in prison serving a 10-year sentence, using the pseudonym "Maria Lopez." The ruse did not work.\
\
"It goes to the sort of antics, the sort of shenanigans, the lengths to which they've gone to prosecute Mr. Guandique," Sonenberg said.\
\
Then-U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Taylor has acknowledged that the case lacked DNA or physical evidence linking Guandique to Levy. And Guandique never confessed to police - in fact, he passed a lie-detector test denying involvement in Levy's disappearance, though prosecutors now question the validity of that test.\
\
But Taylor cited significant circumstantial evidence, including numerous confessions that Guandique purportedly made to other inmates. And Levy's body was found in a wooded section of the city's Rock Creek Park, where Guandique was convicted of assaulting two other young women in 2001.\
\
At a pretrial hearing last month, Assistant U.S. Attorney Amanda Haines said Guandique had a "signature confession style." She said he had discussed killing Levy with many people, giving each person starkly different details.\
\
Whether jurors believe those confessions will be key. The defense wants to present expert testimony from a university professor on the pitfalls of accounts from jailhouse snitches. However, prosecutors say jurors should be allowed to judge the credibility of witnesses for themselves. Superior Court Judge Gerald I. Fisher has indicated he will not allow the vast majority of the professor's proposed testimony.\
\
As for Condit, exactly what role he will play in the trial is unclear. Defense attorneys could be tempted to remind jurors that police were suspicious of Condit for so long, said attorney George Jackson, a Chicago-based lawyer with the Polsinelli Shughart law firm and a former federal prosecutor.\
\
Jackson said the defense would have to tread lightly because jurors would be put off if they sensed attorneys were trying to make an innocent man into a scapegoat. And the government will surely be ready to counter suggestions that Condit was involved. But because Condit is so closely linked to the case in the public's eye, the defense has some leeway to approach the issue with subtlety.\
\
"If it's feasible to suggest that this guy may have been involved, you put it out there" to help create reasonable doubt in a jury's mind, Jackson said. "But it's a dangerous thing to do because you don't know if there will be a backlash."\
\
Photo - Levy  Photo - Guandique   \
\
Document SLMO000020101018e6ai0000g\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b DIGEST - WORLD
\f1\b0 \
\
From news services   \
570 words\
14 September 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A13\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Family asks Iran to drop hiker's bail\
\
The family of an American woman detained in Iran for more than a year is appealing to authorities to drop a $500,000 bail for her release because they cannot afford it, her lawyer said Monday. Swiss diplomats acting on behalf of the U.S. are asking that the bail be dropped or lowered for Sarah Shourd, 32.\
\
Iraq has budget surplus - A U.S. government study released Monday found that Iraq has a budget surplus of $51 billion, with $11.8 billion readily available for spending on its security forces. The study by the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, comes as the Senate prepares to debate a $2 billion funding request from the White House for the Iraqi security forces.\
\
U.N. to address Haiti rapes - The United Nations is launching a campaign against a wave of rapes in Haitian camps for people still displaced by this year's devastating earthquake. The U.N.'s top official in Haiti said that police and soldiers in the U.N.'s peacekeeping force are being trained how to handle rape and other sexual violence, and to ensure medical care for victims.\
\
Cuba laying off 500,000 - Cuba will lay off 500,000 public employees in the expectation that they will move into private businesses and stimulate the economy. President Raul Castro has said Cuba has 1 million excess employees on the state payroll.\
\
Settlement deal possible, Clinton says - Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said she believed that the Israelis and Palestinians could work out a deal on Jewish settlements, leaving open the possibility that peace talks could go forward.\
\
15 dead in Venezuela - A plane carrying 51 people crashed in a steel mill yard in eastern Venezuela, killing 15 people on board, officials said.\
\
Japan apologizes - Japan's foreign minister apologized for the suffering of Americans held as prisoners of war during World War II and said they were treated inhumanely. "I offer my deep, heartfelt apology for the inhuman treatment you suffered," Foreign Minister Katsuya Okada said.\
\
Japan releases 14 Chinese - Japan freed 14 crew members of a Chinese fishing ship nearly a week after their vessel and two Japanese patrol boats collided near disputed southern islets. But China lashed out at Tokyo's decision to keep the captain in custody.\
\
Zimbabwe releases 4 Americans - A Zimbabwean court freed on bail four Americans arrested and accused of treating AIDS patients without proper medical licenses.\
\
Anger in Belgium - Archbishop Andre-Joseph Leonard, the head of the Roman Catholic Church in Belgium, acknowledged the scale of the scandal over sexual abuse by priests, but offered few short-term solutions and said little of substance about further pursuing the abusers. The lack of more comprehensive steps was greeted with anger by representatives of victims, with one lawyer describing the church's response as "scandalous."\
\
EU declines to condemn France - The European Commission refused to condemn a leaked French government memo that appeared to indicate that the country's illegal-immigrant expulsions were targeting the Gypsy community.\
\
British won't help U.S. staffer - The British government said it has refused a request to have a U.S. Senate staffer interview officials involved in the release of the man convicted of blowing up a passenger plane over Lockerbie, Scotland because of concerns over international jurisdiction.\
\
Document SLMO000020100914e69e0003q\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Migrant births defy claims of U.S. critics It's rare for immigrants to come to the country specifically to have a baby, study shows. IMMIGRATION
\f1\b0 \
\
by BOB CHRISTIE AND PAUL J. WEBER \'95ssociated Press   \
1,022 words\
5 September 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Fourth Edition\
A12\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
SAN JUAN, Texas - When Ruth Garcia's twins are born in two months, they'll have all the rights of U.S. citizens. They and their six brothers and sisters will be able to vote, apply for federal student loans and even run for president.\
\
Garcia is an illegal immigrant who crossed into the country about 14 years ago, before her children were born, and the citizenship granted to her children and millions others like them is at the center of a divisive national debate.\
\
Republicans are pushing for congressional hearings to consider changing the nation's 14th Amendment to deny such children the automatic citizenship the Constitution guarantees. They say women like Garcia are taking advantage of the constitutional amendment and paint a picture of pregnant women rushing across the border to give birth.\
\
While a recent Pew Hispanic Center study shows 8 percent of the 4.3 million babies born in the U.S. in 2008 had at least one illegal parent, a closer examination shows that most children of illegal immigrants are born to parents like Garcia who have made the United States their home for years.\
\
Out of 340,000 babies born to illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008, 85 percent of the parents had been in the country for more than a year, and more than half for at least five years, Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer for Pew, told The Associated Press.\
\
And immigration experts say it's extraordinarily rare for immigrants to come to the U.S. just so they can have babies and get citizenship. In most cases, they come for economic reasons and better hospitals, and end up staying and raising families.\
\
Garcia's husband has been deported and she earns a living selling tamales to other immigrants who live in fear of being deported from the slapdash, impoverished colonias that dot the Texas-Mexico border.\
\
"I think that children aren't at fault for having been born here," Garcia said. "My children always have lived here. They've never gone to another country."\
\
Under current immigration law, Garcia and others like her don't get U.S. citizenship even though their children are Americans.\
\
With an estimated 11.1 million illegal immigrants living in the United States, the issue strikes a chord with many voters - people like retired Air Force nurse and pediatric nurse practitioner Susan Struck, 66, of Double Adobe, Ariz.\
\
"People come over ... and they have babies with U.S. birth certificates, then they go back over the border with that Social Security number, with that birth certificate," and have access to public services, she said at a recent event near the border organized by conservative Tea Party activists.\
\
Several prominent Republican leaders share Struck's beliefs on the issue. Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina has been a vocal advocate for changing the Constitution, and he helped the issue gain momentum heading into the midterm elections.\
\
"Women have traveled from across the world for the purpose of adding a U.S. passport holder to their family, as far away as China, Turkey and as close as Mexico," said Jon Feere, legal analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for strict immigration laws.\
\
Still, changing the Constitution is highly unlikely, legal scholars say. Measures have been introduced in each two-year congressional session since 2005, but none has made it out of committee. Constitutional changes require approval by two-thirds majorities in both chambers of Congress, an impossibility now because Democrats have the majority in both houses and most oppose such a measure. Even if Republicans gain power in November and legislation is passed, an amendment would still need to be ratified by three-fourths of the states.\
\
To be sure, some pregnant Mexican women do come to the United States. In border cities like Nogales, women have been coming to the U.S. for decades to give birth, although the primary reason is better medical care, Santa Cruz County sheriff Tony Estrada said. Billboards advertising birthing services in Arizona line streets across the border in Nogales, Mexico.\
\
Tucson Medical Center, 115 miles southeast of Phoenix, offers packages designed to provide inclusive care to new mothers. The program draws some residents of the northern Mexican state of Sonora who can afford its upfront costs and already have U.S. visas, spokesman Michael Letson said.\
\
Princeton University demographer Douglas Massey said in 30 years studying Mexican immigration, he's never interviewed a migrant who said they came to the United States just to get citizenship for their children.\
\
"Mexicans do not come to have babies in the United States," said Massey, who blames the tightening of the border in the 1990s for cutting off normal migration of men who used to come to work for a year or two and then go home. "They end up having babies in the United States because men can no longer circulate freely back and forth from homes in Mexico to jobs in the United States, and husbands and wives quite understandably want to be together."\
\
More common, he and other experts says, are families stuck with one child who is legal and others who aren't - like Beatriz Gomez, a 35-year-old illegal immigrant who came to Phoenix 11 years ago on a now-expired tourist visa from Arriaga in the Mexican state of Chiapas.\
\
Her 12-year-old daughter was born in Mexico and is here illegally, but her two youngest children, ages 8 and 5, were born in the U.S. and are citizens.\
\
"It's sad," Gomez said of her oldest daughter, who was only 1 when the family came to the United States and won't qualify for benefits such as in-state college tuition rates or federal student loans. "She studies hard, and she won't be able to go to a university like the other two."\
\
Document SLMO000020100905e695000jl\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b LAW & ORDER
\f1\b0 \
\
981 words\
24 August 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A2\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
ST. LOUIS > Store owner gets probation for falsifying records - Edith James, 58, owner of Comfort Shoe Specialists at 11693 Manchester Road in Des Peres, was sentenced to two years' probation and ordered to repay Medicare $6,856 on Monday for falsifying documents during a health care fraud investigation. James waived indictment by a grand jury and pleaded guilty May 28 to a charge of making a false statement. She admitted that after the Department of Health and Human Services began investigating allegations that she was improperly billing Medicare for shoes for diabetic patients, she falsified records to show that she had sold shoes that qualified. James also sent home an employee who refused to doctor the records, her plea agreement says.\
\
ST. LOUIS > Man freed by appeals court is arrested again - A St. Louis man who was freed from a sentence of life in prison without parole for a murder he committed at the age of 14 has been charged again, this time with possession of an assault pistol, federal court documents show. Police on Aug. 17 spotted Phillip D. Shaw, now 29, and when Shaw spotted the officers, he dropped his backpack and jumped a fence, according to a federal court affidavit. Police saw a .223-caliber Professional Ordnance assault pistol peeking out of the backpack and arrested Shaw. He was charged with a federal firearms violation the next day. Shaw is a felon and therefore barred from possessing a firearm. Shaw was one of two men who shot and killed Toriano Burston, 21, during a robbery at a dice game in 1995. Both he and Rodney Smith were convicted and sentenced to life in prison without parole. Both appealed and eventually won, because a prosecutor removed a juror based on gender, appeals courts found. After their successful appeals, prosecutors offered a 10-year sentence to Smith and a 12-year sentence to Shaw.\
\
EAST ST. LOUIS > Illegal immigrant is sentenced for smuggling marijuana - An undocumented immigrant from Mexico was sentenced in federal court in East St. Louis on Monday to five years in federal prison for smuggling more than 500 pounds of marijuana under tons of spaghetti squash. In addition to the federal charge of possession with the intent to distribute marijuana, Francisco "Poncho" Javier-Rivera, 37, of Sonora state, faced a charge of unlawful entry into the country. The marijuana was discovered Feb. 23 after Granite City police stopped Javier-Rivera's truck on Interstate 70 for a traffic violation.\
\
WEBSTER GROVES > Student is assaulted while jogging - Police are searching for a man who assaulted a Webster University student as she was jogging about 7:15 a.m. Saturday. The man pulled the student into some bushes near Gray Avenue and West Jackson Road, about a mile from the campus. The university sent out text message and e-mail alerts to students and faculty to inform them of the attack. The message reminded recipients to travel in pairs when possible and report suspicious activity to the university's public safety department.\
\
FRANKLIN COUNTY > Woman is killed, two children hurt in collision on I-44 - Drunken driving is suspected in a two-vehicle collision that killed a woman Sunday night. The victim, Billie J. Manley, 29, of O'Fallon, Mo., was a passenger in a Ford Explorer that was hit in the rear by a Chevrolet Cavalier driven by Genevieve R. Markowski, 18, of St. Louis, according to the Missouri Highway Patrol. Markowski, who was not hurt, was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving, manslaughter, second-degree assault, and careless and imprudent driving, according to the Highway Patrol. The accident happened about 6:45 p.m. near Highway D when the eastbound Cavalier merged left and collided with the Explorer. The driver of the Explorer, Timothy J. Nolting, 42, of O'Fallon, Mo., lost control and went off the road into a ditch. He was not hurt. Manley's sons, Kaleb R. Kay, 10, and Jordan S. Harlow, 4, were injured and taken to hospitals for treatment. Jordan suffered minor injuries; Kaleb was in good condition Monday at St. Louis Children's Hospital.\
\
ST. CHARLES COUNTY > Second jewelry store is robbed in St. Charles historic district - Detectives are investigating two jewelry store burglaries in the past month in St. Charles' historic district in which thieves got $150,000 in merchandise. In the most recent incident, burglars forced open a window early Friday at Lewis & Clark Jewelers, 724 South Main Street, smashed the tops of two glass display cases and took about 40 men's rings estimated to be worth $100,000. On July 19, burglars broke a window at Master'sPieces Fine Jewelry & Gifts, 816 South Main Street, and took $50,000 in jewelry from a display case, police said. St. Charles police Lt. Mike Akers said that in both cases, police were notified by an alarm system and responded within minutes. "Apparently, the suspects were in and out quickly and knew what they wanted," he said. Anyone with information is asked to call police at 636-949-3320.\
\
ST. PETERS > Man is charged with statutory sodomy - Donald D. Auchly, 71, of the 800 block of Mid Rivers Mall Drive in St. Peters, was charged Monday with statutory sodomy. He is accused of having sexual contact last week with a boy younger than 17. Auchly had prior convictions for sodomy stemming from incidents in 1986 in St. Charles County, according to the Missouri Sex Offender Registry.\
\
ST. LOUIS COUNTY > Credit union is robbed - A man robbed the Electro Savings Credit Union at 12400 Tesson Ferry Road about 4:50 p.m. Monday, handing a note to a teller demanding money and lifting his shirt to show a weapon, St. Louis County police said. No one was hurt. Police said they gathered evidence at the scene but have not yet made an arrest.\
\
Document SLMO000020100824e68o00067\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Death fuels immigration debate Authorities in Virginia hope nun's death in accident involving a drunk driver who was in the country illegally will lead to crackdown.
\f1\b0 \
\
By SUZANNE GAMBOA and KATHLEEN MILLER \'95ssociated Press   \
934 words\
9 August 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Second Edition\
A6\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
WASHINGTON - In Arizona, the fatal shooting of a rancher blew the lid off simmering anger over border security and helped solidify support for a tough new immigration law. A similar eruption threatens in Virginia after the death of a Catholic nun in a car accident involving a man in the country illegally and accused of drunken driving.\
\
The Benedictine Sisters of Virginia tried to discourage using the death of Sister Denise Mosier as a "forum of the illegal immigration agenda" and pleaded for a focus on "Christ's command to forgive."\
\
"The sisters' mission is peace and love," said Corey Stewart, chairman of Prince William County's Board of Supervisors. "My mission is law enforcement and the protection of public safety."\
\
Prince William County, about 25 miles southwest of Washington, stepped up its immigration enforcement in 2007 amid explosive growth of its Hispanic and immigrant populations. Under Stewart's leadership, the county implemented a local policy requiring police to determine the immigration status of all people arrested on suspicion of violating state or local laws.\
\
Stewart rushed back into the immigration debate after the Aug. 1 accident, firing off a statement that President Barack Obama, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and members of Congress "all have blood on their hands."\
\
"What I'm hoping is that this situation, which because it involves a nun has drawn the nation's attention, can serve as a catalyst for change and force the administration to come clean about its catch-and-release policies," Stewart said. He also says that the incident illustrates the need for Virginia to toughen its drunken driving laws.\
\
Even though Stewart says he's not running for higher office now, he is seen as a potential candidate for lieutenant governor in three years. "Regardless of what he says, there is no question people would be interested in seeing him move up within the Republican Party," said Stephen Farnsworth, an assistant communications professor at George Mason University.\
\
The day after the crash, Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II issued an advisory opinion concluding that police have authority to inquire into the immigration status of any person stopped or arrested, similar to the Arizona immigration law that is under federal court review.\
\
Arizona passed the law after rancher Robert Krentz was fatally shot while checking water lines on his property near the Arizona-Mexico border. Authorities believe a scout for drug smugglers is to blame, although an investigation continues.\
\
The sisters at the Bristow, Va., monastery have buried Mosier, who would have turned 67 on Aug. 26. Two other nuns injured in the crash, Charlotte Lange and Connie Ruth Lupton, have undergone surgery and remain in critical condition.\
\
The man charged in the case, Carlos A. Martinelly Montano, 23, of Bolivia, had two prior drunken driving convictions but was not required to serve any of his 30-day sentence for the first one. A Prince William County judge required Montano to serve only 20 days of his approximately one-year sentence on his second conviction.\
\
Local officials turned him over to federal immigration enforcement officers after the second incident and after sentencing, but federal officers released him both times while he awaited hearings.\
\
Montano is being held at the Prince William County Adult Detention Center, and the county's prosecutor is promising to ask a grand jury to consider charges that could put him in prison for 40 years.\
\
Montano entered the U.S. illegally with his parents and siblings, his uncle, Luis Ronald Montano, said. Carlos Montano attended American schools in New Jersey and Virginia from third grade through high school. He is engaged and is the father of two boys, ages 1 and 2, who were born in Manassas, Va.\
\
The nuns have forgiven Montano. Mercy and forgiveness, the nuns say on their website, are not optional for Christians.\
\
Nearly half of the 292,663 people deported or removed by ICE this year through July 22 were considered criminals. That compares with 34 percent, or 136,343, in all of last year, a reflection of ICE's focus on deporting people with criminal records.\
\
Removals of noncitizens who are not criminals are below what they were at the same time last year, which has become fodder for criticism of the admdinistration of President Barack Obama.\
\
The law requires mandatory detention for immigrants who have committed certain crimes. In other cases, immigration officials have to make judgment calls on whether to release someone.\
\
In those cases, ICE considers the likelihood that the person will be a danger to the community and the likelihood the person will appear at deportation hearings, said David Leopold, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.\
\
Factors they consider are ties to the community, such as whether they have family members or citizen children in the U.S.\
\
"The sisters' mission is peace and love. My mission is law enforcement and the protection of public safety." - Corey Stewart, chairman of Prince William County's Board of Supervisors\
\
Photo by associated press - Corey Stewart (right), chairman of the Prince William County, Va., Board of Supervisors, and Maureen Caddigan (center), listen to public comment  after the accident in which Sister Denise Mosier was killed.  Photo by benedictine sisters - Sister Denise Mosier of the Benedictine Sisters of Virginia was killed in a car crash in which Carlos Montano, an illegal immigrant, was charged with drunken driving.   \
\
Document SLMO000020100809e6890006q\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Primaries point to political shifts November candidates can't count on family names, incumbency. POLITICS
\f1\b0 \
\
BY DAVID HUNN     dhunn@post-dispatch.com   314-436-2239 Margaret Gillerman, Mark Schlinkmann and Virginia Young of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.   \
1,104 words\
5 August 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
Correction published, Friday, August 6, 2010 - Republican Todd Akin faces Democrat Arthur Lieber in the Nov. 2 election for the 2nd Congressional District. This report failed to include Lieber. \
\
0\
\
Tuesday's Missouri primaries set the stage for some heated races come November.\
\
Although the fight between Democrat Robin Carnahan and Republican Roy Blunt for U.S. Senate may well steal the spotlight, Tuesday's election proved that candidates can count on neither incumbency nor family names this year.\
\
Two St. Louis incumbents, Hope Whitehead and James Morris, lost state House Democratic primaries. Incumbent city circuit clerk Mariano Favazza lost his seat.\
\
"It's a strange year," said Lana Stein, a former professor at the University of Missouri-St. Louis who has studied local politics for 23 years. With the economy in the dumps, plenty of inter-party fighting, and an anti-incumbent sentiment nationwide, anything could happen come November, said Stein.\
\
Here's a quick look ahead at some key November races:\
\
3RD CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT\
\
Some say this could be the year a Republican wins the 3rd.\
\
Ed Martin, an attorney and former chief-of-staff in Gov. Matt Blunt's administration, overwhelmingly took the Republican nomination Tuesday and will face six-year incumbent Russ Carnahan, who crushed his Democratic primary candidates.\
\
And although the 3rd District leans Democrat, seniors worried about health care, blue-collar families stressed by the economy and unhappy independents could all swing the district Martin's way, he believes.\
\
In addition, Martin thinks Robin Carnahan's Senate race could hurt her brother's chances for re-election in the House. "In a year where people don't want incumbents and dynasties and ruling aristocracies, his name will be right below hers (on the ballot)," Martin said.\
\
Carnahan staffers say they're not taking anything for granted. "Voters here have an independent streak," said Angela Guyadeen, communications director for the campaign.\
\
Meanwhile, Martin, 40, said he was getting some national attention; he has been named a "Young Gun" by the National Republican Congressional Committee. He said he would support many traditionally conservative values, fighting against President Barack Obama's health care reform plan and illegal immigrant citizenship and for border security and job generation.\
\
Guyadeen said she could not reach Carnahan, 52, for comment.\
\
7TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT\
\
In a year when everyone wants to be the outsider, Scott Eckersley says he has the best claim to the tag.\
\
Eckersley, who won the Democratic nomination in this southwestern Missouri district, contended that he was fired in 2007 by Martin, who was then-Gov. Matt Blunt's chief of staff at the time, for challenging the way the governor's office handled public records such as e-mails. After he won a $500,000 settlement from the state, Eckersley filed for Congress, sinking $100,000 of his money into his campaign.\
\
But the district - represented by Roy Blunt the last 14 years - is overwhelmingly Republican, making GOP nominee Billy Long the heavy favorite. Long, 47, an auctioneer from Springfield, beat seven other candidates by running on the theme of being "fed up" with Washington.\
\
Eckersley, 33, from Kimberling City, said party label didn't matter.\
\
"Everywhere I go, if they don't know my name already, I say, 'I'm the whistle-blower in the Matt Blunt e-mail scandal,' and 95 percent of the time I'm getting pats on the back."\
\
MISSOURI AUDITOR\
\
Tom Schweich was savoring his win as the GOP nominee for state auditor Wednesday when the Democratic incumbent, Susan Montee, revved up the fall campaign by saying that the auditor should be a Certified Public Accountant.\
\
Montee is a CPA as well as a lawyer. Schweich is a lawyer but not a CPA. The issue often surfaces in the race for auditor. Some past auditors, such as Republican Margaret Kelly, were CPAs, whereas others, such as Democrat Claire McCaskill, were not.\
\
In an interview, Montee, 50, said that Schweich would "have to hire a deputy who actually makes the decisions."\
\
Schweich shot back that he has managed private investigations into financial misdeeds, both as a corporate lawyer and as a State Department official. He said he could better spot fraud because he has a law enforcement background, which Montee lacks.\
\
Schweich, 49, of Clayton, took 58.6 percent of the GOP vote to defeat Rep. Allen Icet of Wildwood.\
\
And although Icet and Schweich have traded barbs, the party's top banner carrier, Senate nominee Roy Blunt, predicted a unified party front for Schweich in the fall. "I don't think the wounds are deep at all," Blunt said.\
\
The first job for Schweich: catching up with Montee's campaign war chest. At last report, she had stockpiled about $543,633, while Schweich had largely drained his $1.3 million treasury.\
\
ST. LOUIS COUNTY EXECUTIVE\
\
The St. Louis County executive race between incumbent Charlie Dooley, a Democrat, and Bill Corrigan, a Republican, is expected to be the most costly race for that seat ever, and the most hotly contested in years.\
\
Corrigan spokesman Susan Ryan asserted that "Bill's message is resonating with Republicans, Democrats and independents."\
\
Dooley spokeswoman Katy Jamboretz said her boss "goes to work every day as county executive - and his actions speak louder than words."\
\
Both campaigns said they were eager to begin debates. On election night, Corrigan, 51, of Ladue, called for four debates with Dooley, 62, of Northwoods.\
\
Jamboretz said Dooley's campaign welcomed debates because Corrigan had not taken stands on some pressing issues in the county, including the casino proposal in north St. Louis County and a proposition to fund Metro bus and light rail. Ryan said that Dooley "has not demonstrated the results people expect" as county executive.\
\
A FEWSURE BETS\
\
That is not to say, however, that there aren't some relatively sure bets.\
\
Democrat William Lacy Clay should have no trouble holding on to his seat in the very Democratic 1st Congressional District against Republican Robyn Hamlin. Todd Akin won his 2nd District seat by a landslide Tuesday and faces no Democratic opponent.\
\
And Republican Blaine Luetkemeyer, from St. Elizabeth, won renomination in the 9th Congressional District a few days after his family was hit by disaster. His daughter-in-law, Amy Luetkemeyer, died in a car accident Friday in Maries County in central Missouri.\
\
Luetkemeyer, 58, has no Democratic opposition this year.\
\
Document SLMO000020100805e6850000z\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION
\f1\b0 \
\
1,296 words\
30 July 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Second Edition\
A12\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
St. Louisans get to decide on electing a county assessor\
\
On Aug. 3, St. Louis County residents will go the polls to vote on an elected assessor. What is at stake? Actually, two things.\
\
The subject of the referendum is whether the St. Louis County assessor should be elected rather than appointed. The assessor determines the value of each home and property in St. Louis County. An elected assessor is the norm across the state, but Missouri's largest jurisdictions and plenty of counties across the country have appointed ones.\
\
There is an important reason this issue will be on the St. Louis County ballot this summer. I placed this issue on the August ballot so that St. Louis County voters could determine the issue for themselves. Lawmakers in Jefferson City have called for a statewide vote on this issue in November. I believe it is wrong to allow voters in cities and towns across Missouri to decide an issue that only affects St. Louis County residents and businesses.\
\
Some people have predicted that St. Louis County residents won't turn out in August to vote on this issue. I disagree. I strongly believe voters will make their voices heard when home rule is at stake.\
\
Should St. Louis County voters disagree with statewide voters, I will take actions to ensure that St. Louis County voters prevail.\
\
St. Louis County is filled with the best and the brightest citizens in our state. I believe that we are more than capable of making this decision on our own - and that our decision, whatever it is, will be more acceptable because we made it.\
\
Charlie A. Dooley - Clayton St. Louis County Executive\
\
Missing coverage\
\
The Post-Dispatch published in-depth coverage of the Republican state Senate primary in St. Charles County ("GOP rivals clash in primary," July 21). But it did not cover the four candidates in the 26th district, which covers all of Franklin and Warren counties and a portion of western St. Louis County?\
\
Surely, the top issue facing the citizens of our state is the tragic underfunding of public education. I have proposed five ways to raise the necessary revenue, none of which would increase income taxes.\
\
Voters deserve to know about this important contest. The Post-Dispatch should cover it.\
\
Donald D. Meyer - Labadie\
\
Dodge City\
\
A man waiting in line to pay for his gas accidentally was shot through the wrist by a man with a permit to carry a concealed weapon but with no clue about how to handle a gun safely ("Stray bullet hits lifeguard, 16, at pool," July 27).\
\
The victim may well face a life with loss of function in his hand and a permanent disability. His immediate future probably will include surgeries, physical therapy, time lost from work and pain and suffering.\
\
No charges are expected because the shooter had a permit to carry a concealed weapon. This is outrageous, given the seriousness of the victim's injuries and the criminal recklessness of the shooter. I am stunned to learn that in Missouri a gun owner can go his merry way with impunity after discharging his firearm anywhere and anytime, maiming an innocent person, turning a quiet suburban town into Dodge City 1880. All the shooter has to do is produce his concealed weapons permit, and he can continue walking among us with his deadly weapon.\
\
Pam Jeannot - Foristell\
\
Nuclear plants are safe\
\
Contrary to the speculation in Bob Herbert's column "We're not ready for a nuclear power plant problem" (July 21), the nation's nuclear energy facilities are well prepared to protect public health and safety. The nuclear energy industry operates under the premise that things can go wrong; it designs its plants and trains personnel to respond safely and effectively to unlikely scenarios, suhc as major system malfunctions and security threats.\
\
Additionally, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission requires the industry to be prepared to protect public health and safety during worst-case events. Every U.S. nuclear plant is required to have emergency plans, procedures and notification systems at the ready 24 hours a day, seven days a week should an emergency occur. Every plant also is required to regularly perform emergency and security drills that the NRC grades.\
\
The column ignored the "defense-in-depth" safety design built into nuclear plant structures and operating systems, which protected public health even when the Three Mile Island accident occurred. Likewise, the many subsequent improvements in personnel training and operational practices that have made nuclear energy a reliable contributor to the nation's economic well-being were not mentioned.\
\
The hundreds of companies engaged in the industry stake their success and reputation on each other's commitment to safety.\
\
Marvin Fertel - Washington, D.C. President and CEO, Nuclear Energy Institute\
\
Liberal inefficiencies\
\
I agree with Bob Herbert's conclusions about our economy and large-scale losses for previously middle-class families ("Grim trend worsens," July 28). We are looking at the ultimate result of rampant liberal policies that we were able to afford in the decades after World War II when the rest of the world was rebuilding but whose bill now is coming due.\
\
One of the most basic laws of economics is that money seeks its most efficient use. But that has been flouted for a few decades in laws and regulations that can be traced in many cases to environmental activists. The fact that we haven't started a new nuclear power plant in decades is one example, and the recent shut down of drilling in the Gulf is another. But the devastation of farming in California's central valley to save a fish may be the most egregious.\
\
Through regulations that limit the way we can use our resources, Americans have been forced to be less efficient with our assets. Now we are paying for it. A few years ago, the price of corn skyrocketed when our government deemed that it was better than oil for fueling cars. Congress decreed that we should no longer use Edison's incandescent bulb, favoring fluorescent ones. Is that decision best made on Capitol Hill or by me as I consider my purchase at the hardware store? It is a "liberal tax," and it's killing this country.\
\
Gary Duff - Granite City\
\
Protecting rights\
\
The controversy over the pending immigration bill in Arizona is not about protecting the rights of illegal immigrants, it is about the protecting the rights of American citizens. As it stands, the clause that directs police to demand proof of citizenship from anyone they stop for other reasons and whom they suspect might be an illegal immigrant opens American citizens with Latino (and likely African and Native American) heritage to discrimination from police.\
\
The solution to this is to remove the "reasonable suspicion" clause and demand proof of citizenship from everyone who is stopped by police. The critics who point out police selection will fall unduly on minorities will have that argument removed if it applies equally to all.\
\
And the supporters who claim that real American citizens will not be burdened by the requirement to provide proof of citizenship will be able to share in the responsibility to carry their "papers" at all times or risk jail, just like their fellow brown citizens. All citizens would share in the benefits of controlling illegal immigration, and all citizens would share in the burden of having to prove their citizenship or risk jail anytime they are stopped by police.\
\
Mike Geries - Smithton\
\
Simply awful\
\
Why is it that deficits didn't matter when the Republicans were in power but, now that the baton has passed to the Democrats, deficits are simply awful?\
\
Beatrice Jensen - Eureka\
\
Document SLMO000020100731e67u00003\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION
\f1\b0 \
\
1,212 words\
19 July 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Second Edition\
A13\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
For smokers, it's not a choice\
\
In "Campus smoking is under assault: (July 9), about a planned smoking ban at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, one displeased UMSL student said, "I don't like public state schools (controlling) behavior that is chosen by adults." Smokers are addicts, plain and simple. An addict will not voluntarily refrain from smoking just because it is harmful to others. The only real choice smokers make is when they begin smoking, and then they usually are young, susceptible to peer pressure and not yet capable of seeing the truth behind the slick misinformation campaigns of money-hungry Big Tobacco.\
\
After a very short time, smoking no longer is a choice. Smokers' brains demand nicotine. Many smokers will do just about anything to get it, including behaving in ways inconsistent with their own moral codes.\
\
Ever see a co-worker race for the office door on a cold day? That's hardly the behavior of someone choosing to smoke. Ever known a smoker who has tried multiple times to quit, each time giving up because the withdrawal symptoms were too much to bear?\
\
Smokers' brains trick them into ignoring the full extent of their behavior to keep the nicotine coming. And even when smokers face the facts, their addictions may be so powerful that they still can't quit.\
\
Addiction makes smokers very predictable. Allow them to smoke in public spaces and they will. We must stop worrying about catering to smokers' addictions in the name of protecting personal freedoms. Smoking is anything but free - or freeing.\
\
Kathleen Butler - St. Louis County\
\
Lofty guise\
\
The fact that a professor at the University of Illinois did not have his contract renewed because of his alleged "hate speech" concerning homosexuality is not a case of academic freedom, it is a case of common sense, a trait sorely lacking by both the complaining students and the university administration ("Not-so-free exchange," July 14).\
\
What did the student expect to hear in a class entitled "Introduction to Catholicism" except Catholic doctrine? What did the administration expect the man to teach in a class entitled "Introduction to Catholicism" except Catholic doctrine? Calling this an issue of academic freedom is nothing more than an attempt by the university's administration to cloak a stupid decision in the lofty guise of an important principle.\
\
I am not a Catholic, and I find many aspects of Catholic doctrine distasteful, outdated or just plain wrong. If the student was really offended, he shouldn't have a hissy fit over some poor associate professor. He should go picket the pope or simply drop the class.\
\
J.L. Whaley - Warson Woods\
\
Present the facts\
\
The editorial "Not-so-free exchange" (July 14) was about the dismissal of adjunct professor Kenneth Howell by the University of Illinois. Mr. Howell taught the course "Introduction to Catholicism," which included teaching the church's stance against homosexuality.\
\
The editorial said the professor presented the Catholic teaching regarding homosexual conduct and then also defended it, arguing that such conduct violated religious doctrine, was immoral and violated "natural law." This was deemed offensive after a student complained to the university. Subsequently, the professor's contract was not renewed, raising the question of freedom of speech, especially in academia.\
\
The crux of the matter lies in the difference between presenting the facts and defending and arguing in favor of them. The proper function of an educator is to present the facts and encourage a student to think, but not tell him what to think.\
\
The professor had every right to defend and argue his religious beliefs outside the classroom, but if he did so in a classroom of captive students, he should have been fired.\
\
However, the professor should not be subjected to a double standard. The educational system, from grade school through universities, is dominated by liberal philosophy. Few educators have any reservations about imposing their views on students. If Mr. Howell 's dismissal was justified, then the large majority of educators likewise should be given the boot.\
\
G.H. Berndsen - Town and Country\
\
Lowered standards\
\
Regarding "Court strikes down FCC policy on indecency" (July 14): The Federal Appeals Court decision to allow "fleeting expletives" on radio and TV is just one more step down the slippery slope of inappropriate behavior. Our children will take note.\
\
You don't have to be a conservative to be concerned about what happens when "private" language goes into the mainstream. As one who taught sex education for years and as a grandparent, I watch with sadness as we take away even more of our children's innocence. Already we have sitcoms with sexual innuendo and programs in which people jump into bed soon after meeting each other. To add "fleeting expletives" merely lowers the standards in a different way. Little ones will be asking us what these words mean, and they will imitate the words long before they can understand or even think about such concepts.\
\
Teachers who hear fleeting expletives will have nothing to back them up if they try to discipline kids for cursing. It's OK on radio and television, isn't it? Some high schoolers are already cursing at teachers.\
\
I'm not saying this decision is awful, sinful or the end of the world. It's just another indication that misunderstanding what "liberty" means chips away at appropriate, civil behavior.\
\
Elizabeth Powell - St. Louis County\
\
Enough is enough\
\
Protesters of the Arizona immigration law are not really concerned with the Arizona law, just as President Barack Obama's and the federal government's challenge of the law has nothing to do with racial profiling.\
\
The real concern by the protesters is that the Arizona law might force the federal government to actually enforce the federal immigration law that already is in place - something it has been reluctant to do until now. And the federal government's challenge to the law is more about not wanting to alienate a large Hispanic voting block because the Arizona law is forcing the government to actually deal with the problem of sealing the border.\
\
Their illegality was not a problem until the legal citizens of this country (specifically Arizona) decided enough is enough.\
\
Emil Stevens - Chesterfield\
\
One is one too many\
\
Regarding "Untangling complexity" (July 16): Like Attorney General Eric Holder, the Post-Dispatch editorial board obviously didn't read Arizona's new law. Local officers are required to get involved only if there is some reason for the law enforcement officers to believe that a person is in the country illegally. If I got stopped for speeding, the law enforcement officer would check my drivers license, my insurance card and my automobile registration. If these are in order, maybe I am here legally. No reason to check.\
\
Even if one person is killed by an illegal immigrant, that is one person too many. Whatever the statistics show, violent crimes by illegal immigrants are high.\
\
Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer has brought the issue to the front burner and has the ear of our president. Maybe something positive will come from this - something more than the newspaper's knee-jerk reaction.\
\
Ken Dean - Mount Vernon, Ill.\
\
Document SLMO000020100719e67j0000y\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b LETTERS FROM OUR READERS YOUR VIEWS
\f1\b0 \
\
1,250 words\
11 July 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Fourth Edition\
A14\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
A healthier future for new Missourians\
\
Earlier this month, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced an expanded definition of "lawfully residing children and Pregnant women" to make it easier for state governments to provide Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program benefits to legal immigrant children and pregnant women.\
\
The federal government lifted the five-year waiting period for children of legal immigrants to have access to the health care safety net. The Department of Health and Human Services will provide enhanced federal matching funds to states that cover these children and pregnant women, thus making their health insurance nearly cost-free to the state. Giving these children access to Medicaid and CHIP will have a healthy impact on the lives of nearly 4,000 Missouri children who, until now, have had limited access to the state's health care safety net.\
\
When so much negative attention has been given to Arizona's anti-immigrant law, we are demonstrating our American sense of fairness by not punishing the children of immigrants who played by the rules, came here legally and paid taxes like every other citizen.\
\
Gov. Jay Nixon should direct the Missouri to provide immigrants access to Medicaid and CHIP to invest in the healthy future of these new Missourians.\
\
Dr. Kevin Minder - Olivette Center for Immigrant Healthcare Justice\
\
Appointment anger\
\
The recess appointment of Dr. Donald Berwick as administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services was not necessary ("Obama skips Senate, fills health care post," July 8). It bypassed the normal Senate confirmation process. The Senate should have had the opportunity to hold hearings in order to ask the nominee questions. Dr. Berwick has made a number of controversial statements, including on rationing health care, redistribution of wealth and praise for the British nationalized health care system.\
\
Recess appointments have been used by both parties. But a recess appointment should be the last step in a process and used only in response to flagrant and inordinate delaying tactics. There were no attempts to delay the confirmation of this nominee; Republicans had requested hearings.\
\
The president and others in his party accused Republicans of stonewalling and forcing his hand on this recess appointment. The vetting process had not been completed. If the president thought it imperative to fill the vacancy, why did he wait 15 months to nominate someone? In reality, the reason for this recess appointment was to avoid discussion of this nominee's controversial statements and continued debate on unpopular health care legislation and administration policies.\
\
This flies in the face of the president's vow of transparency.\
\
The nominee may be qualified for the post. He may have rational explanations for his controversial statements. We'll never know. The people should have the right to hear him answer these questions.\
\
Rich Stanze - Manchester\
\
Tax money up in smoke\
\
Regarding "Campus smoking is under assault" (July 9): This is more outrageous government waste. Why should stimulus funds be spent on such a program? Ask any one of the millions of unemployed people if they think this is a good use of our tax funds.\
\
And politicians wonder why citizens are angry and frustrated.\
\
C. Flieg - St. Louis\
\
Issue distortion\
\
Apparently Leonard Pitts considers himself a member of the "cantankerous apostles" of old-school journalism. In fact, a review of his "When strong opinion avoids facts" (July 4) reveals him as the patron saint of misinformation.\
\
In his own words, he tosses "the raw, red meat of emotion for the benefit of the heart" by repeatedly lambasting the Arizona governor's failure to "quantify" illegal immigrant drug traffickers attempting to enter the United States. This is issue distortion. Our national concern is the phenomenon of illegal immigration itself.\
\
He quotes a border agent union representative telling CNN that Arizona Gov. Jan. Brewer's claim doesn't "comport with reality." Mr. Pitts' intention is to paint Ms. Brewer, and the illegal immigration bill, as psychologically unsound.\
\
Mr. Pitts, in reference to the dominance of drug mules, wrote, "I will say right here that I have no idea whether that claim is true but I suspect it's not." Mr. Pitts is a professional reporter who conveniently doesn't continue his sentence with "although by the growing number of cartel-related deaths in Juarez, Mexico, the problem cannot be denied."\
\
Most devious of all is the beginning of the piece, disparaging "certain conservative bloggers and the gullible people who believe them" so that if one jumps on his bandwagon immediately, a negative perception of conservatives (and Tea Partiers?) is reinforced throughout the work. The "wiser, more-enlightened citizenry" Mr. Pitts referenced is coming - in spite of issue-distorting propagandists like him.\
\
Brian Turney - St. Louis County\
\
Correlations\
\
In "Truth and candor" (July 4), Charles Krauthammer tries to make the argument that we have to realize that Muslim fundamentalism is the root cause of the terrorist attacks on the United States and other Western countries. He attacks Attorney General Eric Holder for not wanting to lay claim to this "truth." But he leads one to believe that all Muslim fundamentalists are terrorists. All Muslim terrorists are Muslim fundamentalists, but not all Muslim fundamentalists are terrorists.\
\
The same thing could be used against Christian fundamentalists. Some Christian fundamentalists join militias and become violent. But there are many Christian fundamentalists who are not violent. Mr. Krauthammer doesn't understand that when Mr. Holder doesn't want to make a correlation between Muslim fundamentalism and Muslim terrorism, it is because, as a good American, he may disagree with what a person says, but he will defend to the death the right to say it. Violence against others is the indefensible behavior.\
\
Mr. Krauthammer is correct that we need to confront Muslim fundamentalism in the marketplace of ideas. This is what Malcom Nance proposes in his book, "An End to Al-Qaeda." He suggests that if we show people who might be drawn to this ideology how it is the opposite of an enlightened interpretation of the Koran, we might narrow the pool of potential recruits.\
\
One problem is our education system. When the average young American thinks Abraham Lincoln was president during the Revolutionary War, how can we teach the nuances of mainline Islam versus Muslim fundamentalism?\
\
John Stopple - Kirkwood\
\
Potential disaster\
\
In just the July 2 edition of the paper, we have two perfect examples of the potential disasters we face with additional government control of our health care system. In "Cochran dental chief put on leave," we learn again that the government can't keep its few U.S. veterans' hospitals safe for those to whom we owe a tremendous debt. Almost 2,000 patients were put at risk because the hospital couldn't even be kept clean under government supervision.\
\
Added to that is an article about government waste, "40 million doses of flu vaccine expire." The government that plans to tell us how to operate our health care system overestimated the need for swine flu vaccine by more than 70 million doses. This means that more than $400 million of vaccine will be incinerated.\
\
This is an example of the government's involvement in health care. Is this what you want for your future?\
\
Eleanor Reichert - St. Charles\
\
Melody, grace\
\
Life is a melody. Family and friends are the harmony. Beautiful music provides the grace note. KFUO-FM Classic 99 certainly brought us much grace.\
\
Mary McGinnis - Oakville\
\
Document SLMO000020100711e67b00049\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Mexican, U.S. agents square off Border Patrol's killing of teen in Mexico adds to immigration fury.
\f1\b0 \
\
BY CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN  AND OLIVIA TORRES     Associated Press   \
873 words\
10 June 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A1\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico - Pointing their rifles, Mexican security forces chased away U.S. authorities investigating the shooting of a 15-year-old Mexican by a U.S. Border Patrol agent on the banks of the Rio Grande, the FBI and witnesses told The Associated Press on Wednesday.\
\
The killing of the Mexican by U.S. authorities - the second in less than two weeks - has exposed the distrust between the two countries that lies just below the surface and has enraged Mexicans who see the death of the boy on Mexican soil as an act of murder.\
\
Mexico's government says the number of Mexicans injured by U.S. immigration authorities has increased this year.\
\
Shortly after the boy was shot, Mexican soldiers arrived at the scene and pointed their guns at the Border Patrol agents across the riverbank while bystanders screamed insults and hurled rocks and firecrackers, FBI spokeswoman Andrea Simmons said. She said the agents were forced to withdraw.\
\
"It pretty quickly got very intense over on the Mexican side," she said, adding that FBI agents showed up later and resumed the investigation, even as Mexican authorities pointed guns at them from across the river.\
\
A relative of the dead boy who had been playing with him told the AP that the Mexicans - whom he described as federal police, not soldiers - pointed their guns only when the Americans waded into the mud in an apparent attempt to cross into Mexico.\
\
The Mexican authorities accused the Americans of trying to recover evidence from Mexican soil and threatened to kill them if they crossed the border, prompting both sides to draw their guns, said the 16-year-old boy who asked not to be further identified for fear of reprisal.\
\
The confrontation occurred Monday night over the body of Sergio Adrian Hernandez Huereka, who died of his wounds beside the column of a railroad bridge connecting Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, and El Paso, Texas.\
\
Each government has made veiled accusations suggesting misconduct on the part of the other's law enforcement agents.\
\
Hernandez was found 20 feet into Mexico, and an autopsy revealed that the fatal shot was fired at a relatively close range, according to Arturo Sandoval, a spokesman for the Chihuahua state attorney general's office. Mexican authorities said a .40-caliber shell casing was found near the body, suggesting that the U.S. Border Patrol agent might have crossed into Mexico to shoot the boy.\
\
That would violate the rules for Border Patrol agents, who are supposed to stay on the U.S. side - and could open the agent to a Mexican homicide prosecution.\
\
A U.S. official close to the investigation told the AP that authorities have a video showing that the Border Patrol agent did not cross into Mexico. In fact, the official said, the video shows what appear to be members of Mexican law enforcement crossing onto the U.S. side, picking something up and returning to Mexico. The official was not cleared to speak about the video and spoke only on condition of anonymity.\
\
Alejandro Pariente, Chihuahua state's regional deputy attorney general, said the U.S. Border Patrol has given him video that he is reviewing. He declined to describe it except to say that it has sped up the investigation.\
\
The two killings have provoked anger in Mexico like no other recent controversy surrounding immigration, including Arizona's new law making it a state crime to be an illegal immigrant and President Barack Obama's decision to send the National Guard to the border.\
\
Although many Mexicans were unhappy with both initiatives, popular and official reaction had been subdued, in contrast to street protests seen in previous years when the U.S. has cracked down on the border. Many Mexicans have since given up hope for a quick solution to the immigration problem, while other issues including growing drug violence have taken center stage in relations between the two countries.\
\
That has started to change with the back-to-back deaths of two Mexicans at the border: the teenager killed Monday, and migrant Anastasio Hernandez, 42, who died after a Customs and Border Protection officer shocked him with a stun gun at the San Ysidro border crossing that separates San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico.\
\
Anastasio Hernandez, who had lived in the U.S. since he was 14, was buried in San Diego on Wednesday.\
\
Among those at the funeral was Humberto Navarrete, who said he was walking across the pedestrian bridge near Tijuana when he witnessed the confrontation and started recording it with his cell phone. In the blurry video, a man can be heard crying and yelling, "Help me! Help me, please!"\
\
San Diego police detective Kevin Rooney said he is trying to reach Navarrete to see the footage and interview him for his investigation.\
\
Photo by GREGORY BULL  \'95ssociated Press - Relatives and friends of Anastasio Hernandez carry his casket toward a church before funeral services Wednesday in San Diego. Hernandez died May 28 after being shocked with a stun gun by a U.S. border agent.   \
\
Document SLMO000020100610e66a0005s\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION
\f1\b0 \
\
1,294 words\
8 June 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A14\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Racial-profiling stats show pervasive bias in government\
\
Regarding "Driving not white" (June 3): As legal director of the ACLU of Eastern Missouri, I was part of the effort 10 years ago to enact Missouri's racial-profiling legislation, making our state the fifth in the nation to require police departments to keep demographic statistics on traffic stops. I now serve as Missouri's nonpartisan voter-protection advocate with Advancement Project, a racial justice organization that combats systemic barriers to inclusive democracy. The recent racial-profiling statistics bespeak a pervasive and systemic bias in the functioning of our basic governmental institutions overall, from police to schools to voting.\
\
When the state law was enacted, African-Americans were 30 percent more likely than whites to be stopped by police. Last year, black drivers were 70 percent more likely to be pulled over than white drivers. This shocking rise has received disturbing little attention and even less alarm from community groups and government officials. We can't afford to ignore the numbers.\
\
This pervasive relevance of race can't help but play out throughout other government processes, including voting, in the way that registration, polling location decisions, polling place resources and poll worker distribution are carried out. Data from the 2008 elections show that the 27 polling locations in St. Louis County with more than three-hour waits were concentrated in precincts with high numbers of African-American voters. This year, state legislators again tried to enact onerous photo ID requirements for voting, despite that data clearly shows that African-Americans are more than twice as likely to lack the kind of identification required by that law. Twenty-five percent of African-American voting-age citizens - more than 5.5 million people - have no current government-issued photo ID. In Missouri, the legislation stood to disenfranchise up to 230,000 registered voters, including 40,000 African-American voters.\
\
The racial-profiling statistics speak to the pervasive racial disparities that affect the most basic aspects of people's daily lives in Missouri and demand renewed vigilance in scrutinizing our voting processes. I am deeply saddened and emboldened by this news.\
\
Denise Lieberman - St. Louis Senior Attorney, Advancement Project\
\
Cut ties\
\
Arizona recently enacted an inhumane immigration law that gives authorities in Arizona the right to stop and question anyone they may suspect of being an illegal immigrant. This law puts everyone at risk. That is not the direction this country should travel. I urge St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay and the city of St. Louis to not conduct business with Arizona.\
\
St. Louis threw its name in the hat to be the host city for the 2012 Democratic Convention. For this city to be given that distinguished honor, Democratic leaders, including Mr. Slay and U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill, must make this symbolic stand.\
\
There is no other way to show opposition to this unjust law than for St. Louis to stand in solidarity with Los Angeles and punish Arizona economically.\
\
Grady Brown - St. Louis\
\
Not for the gullible\
\
I hope that those people who condemn the Arizona immigration law read Tad Armstrong's commentary "Anarchy has arrived' (June 2). Before reading Mr. Armstrong's column, it was my understanding that President Barack Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder condemned the law without thoroughly reading it. The Arizona law is not racial, as Mr. Armstrong points out.\
\
Americans are not gullible and will not accept the negative viewpoint of this law by our government's administration. I agree with Mr. Armstrong in that it is sad that our leaders in Washington, D.C., care more about protecting their jobs than doing their duty to defend our nation's borders.\
\
James DeGuire - High Ridge\
\
Beginning point\
\
Tad Armstrong's commentary "Anarchy has arrived" (June 2) is protected by the Supreme Court's prior broad interpretation of freedom of speech. He is indebted to the great liberal Supreme Court justices appointed by Franklin Delano Roosevelt, namely Harlan Fiske Stone, Hugo L. Black, Robert Jackson, Frank Murphy and William O. Douglas, who stated that our beginning point is always the individual, not the state. Such justices were supportive of such despised elements as Communist sympathizers, Nazi saboteurs and anarchists being allowed a fair hearing.\
\
Even Mr. Armstrong's diatribe in inflammatory, caustic, disjointed and illogical anti-immigrant speech is protected, as objectionable and obtuse as it may seem to many, under the Bill Of Rights. The vaguely written Arizona law that soon will take effect will be struck down in time as patently unconstitutional under the illegal searches and seizures act as unwarranted personal intrusions and under the Bill of Rights.\
\
Ultimately, the court will rein in the real anarchy that the Arizona law may well let loose on individuals and personal freedom. Then we can read the court's opinion written in Mr. Armstrong's approved English as we plant the American flag deeper and firmer for justice for all. Armstrong owes a debt to those liberal justices. He can say what he wants, but the courts will not want what he says.\
\
Laurence C. Day - Ladue\
\
Victims of greed\
\
The gulf oil leak is appalling.\'a0ut this crime against nature already has moved to the back pages.\'a0here has been no real development to report.\'a0ll I hear is "We're trying!"\'a0very bird,\'a0ish and animal dying from the oil from the well in the gulf is a victim.\'a0\
\
They are the victims of\'a0reed, our inert unwillingness to change a system that has proven dangerous to our health and driven us to war to protect interests in foreign oil.\'a0he effect on ecosystems in and around the Gulf\'a0s unspeakable. The hundreds of years necessary to cleanse this horror will result in the genic alteration and adaptation of many animals.\'a0nto what?\'a0e don't know.\'a0\
\
We all are responsible. How many cars do you own?\
\
Native Americans understood our intimate and complex relationship with nature and our animal brothers and sisters.\
\
As I watch this disaster unfold, my soul cries out, keening in mourning for my lost kin.\'a0e have blackened our collective self with the greed of oil, the unflinching carelessness of technology and our devil-may-care attitude.\'a0hen will we change or recognize what Indians knew years ago? We are in community with these animals,\'a0nd we are responsible.\'a0\
\
It is already too late for life in the Gulf of Mexico.\'a0ife will alter and adapt in the Gulf.\'a0 do not know what must be done, but together we have a chance of figuring it out.\
\
Mary Frances Kappel - Crestwood\
\
How we got here\
\
As we watch the devastation of the Gulf Coast unfold, it's worth a look at how we got here. Drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge has been opposed for years because of the supposed risk of environmental damage to an unpopulated, undeveloped and largely unvisited area of northern Alaska. Because demand for petroleum continues unabated, oil producers have been forced to drill under riskier and untested conditions.\
\
The catastrophic failure of the Deepwater Horizon and its mile-deep well is a direct result of these insane policies. The Gulf Coast (and potentially the Eastern Seaboard), populated, developed and visited by millions of tourists each year, is threatened with ruination. The human and economic costs will be staggering.\
\
Meanwhile, billions of gallons of oil sit untapped in Alaska, available through methods that have been proven to work for more than 100 years. Like it or not, we need oil. Let's get it where the potential for damage is lowest.\
\
It's time for politics to get out of the way of reality.\
\
Ken Krueger - St. Louis\
\
Document SLMO000020100608e66800031\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b Detainee centers can be census boom Counting of illegal immigrants could bring in more federal funds for small towns. NATION
\f1\b0 \
\
BY MANUEL VALDES \'95ssociated Press   \
492 words\
1 June 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A7\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
TACOMA, Wash. - Paulo Sergio Alfaro-Sanchez, an illegal immigrant being held at a detention center in Washington state, had no idea that the federal government would count him in the census.\
\
No one gave him a census form. No one told him his information would be culled from the center's records.\
\
But counted he was, along with other illegal immigrants facing deportation in detention centers across the country - about 30,000 people on any given day, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs and Enforcement.\
\
By the time the census delivers the total tallies to the state and federal government, most of the immigrants will be long gone. But because the population snapshot determines the allocation of federal dollars, those in custody could help bring money to the towns, cities and counties in Texas, Arizona, Washington and Georgia where the country's biggest and newest facilities are situated.\
\
"I think the irony, if there's any irony, is that the locality is what's going to benefit, because you have a detention center in a particular city where people have been brought from different parts of the region, and that community will benefit," said Arturo Vargas, executive director of National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, an organization that has pushed Latinos to participate in the census.\
\
This census brings a twist, though. For the first time, states have the option of counting people in detention centers and prisons as residents of their last address before they're detained, worrying some local lawmakers who say cities and counties that host detention centers could lose money.\
\
"Detention centers and prisons should probably count where they are located, that's where resources would be required," Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, D-Georgia wrote in a May letter to the chairman of the subcommittee that oversees the census. Bishop represents Stewart County, Georgia, population 4,600, where the nation's largest detention center housed a total of 14,000 people between April 2007 and March 2008.\
\
ICE operates 22 immigrant detention centers and also houses people in hundreds of other jails or prisons. Most of the largest centers are in small towns in Texas, Arizona and Georgia. Texas is home to six detention centers, and Arizona has three.\
\
The payout can be hefty for small towns. Federal money being distributed from the census averaged about $1,469 per person in fiscal year 2008, according to the Brookings Institute, and other grants are also available to small towns depending on their population.\
\
In Raymondville, Texas, a town of nearly 10,000 people, the Willacy Detention Center holds an average daily population of about 1,000. The detention center's population may push Raymondville over 10,000, a number that will allow it to qualify for more federal help.\
\
Document SLMO000020100601e6610005b\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Your views Letters from our readers
\f1\b0 \
\
1,910 words\
22 May 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A11\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Some legislators tried to increase revenue\
\
The editorial "Standing small" (May 16) took Missouri officials to task for failing to increase state revenue. Voices calling for such solutions have been too few, but we are there.\
\
Sen. Joan Bray, D-University City, sponsored Senate Bill 711, and I sponsored House Bill 2034, which could have produced $1.3 billion for Missouri\'92 essential needs if affirmed by a vote of the people. This income tax reform would:\
\
\'95odernize our tax brackets, which have not been changed since 1931.\
\
\'95educe taxes on average for the bottom 60 percent of Missourians through changes to the brackets and creation of a refundable tax credit of $150 per household member. The tax credit would phase out at $50,000 per year for singles and $80,000 per year for married people filing jointly.\
\
\'95nd the deduction for federal taxes paid, a poorly targeted tax feature that does nothing to help the many low- and middle-income Missourians who owe no federal taxes. Only six states allow a deduction for federal taxes paid.\
\
\'95reate a fairer tax system by requiring that the wealthiest 20 percent of Missourians pay an amount as a percentage of income similar to that paid by the bottom 80 percent.\
\
\'95aise revenue by keeping Missouri dollars at home that would have gone to the federal government. When Missouri\'92 wealthiest taxpayers pay more to Missouri, they pay less to the federal government because of offsets that benefit those who itemize federal taxes.\
\
Ms. Bray offered Senate Bill 905, which would have helped Missouri businesses compete against Internet sales from other states by equalizing sales tax collection, and Senate Bill 906, which would have closed corporate loopholes. I sponsored House Bill 2441, which included reforms to build transparency, honesty and accountability into our tax credit programs.\
\
Rep. Jamiliah Nasheed, D-St. Louis, called for (and I cosponsored) a modest increase in tobacco taxes. With Missouri\'92 tobacco tax $1.21 per pack below the national average, a $1 increase should be considered. That could reduce youth smoking, lead more adults to quit and save the state more than $2 billion in long-term health care expenses.\
\
These bills received little press coverage because journalists do not consider bills that seem doomed to fail worthy of coverage. Without media coverage, vigorous public policy discussion that could prompt the Legislature to take action is unlikely to occur.\
\
Newspapers can help forward-thinking legislators build public discussion by covering our proposals.\
\
State Rep. Jeanette Mott Oxford \'95-St. Louis\
\
Twenty years or 20 push-ups?\
\
Who do you want taking care of a wounded soldier over in Iraq: A young active-duty nurse with three years of nursing experience in a stateside military hospital where the patients may get up to make their own beds, or the medical squadron reserve nurse with many years of experience in a busy civilian inner-city hospital intensive-care unit?\
\
The latter nurse serves the military as her second job while juggling family and community responsibilities. But you are not going to get her. She\'92 a little overweight and can\'92 run a mile and a half fast enough. She\'92 healthy, doesn\'92 smoke or drink excessively and exercises regularly. She works in a physically demanding civilian job and meets all standards of the military physical exam.\
\
But she hasn\'92 passed the Air Force fitness test, so she\'92 not allowed to deploy and loses privileges such as rescheduling her training time and receiving awards, among others. She has the threat of losing rank and being discharged hanging over her head and is reminded of it on a regular basis.\
\
In essence, the Air Force Reserves have decided that it should "mirror" its active-duty counterpart in the realm of fitness. Strict standards for abdominal circumference, push-ups, running and crunches have been set. Many on the active-duty side have scheduled times during the work day for physical fitness and have cost-free access to gyms and dieticians. The non-military public does not have such luxuries during the work day.\
\
The Air Force is soon using our taxpayer dollars to pay civilians to monitor the fitness tests.\
\
Last time I heard, you don\'92 need to do push-ups to start an IV, titrate blood pressure medications or be present in an emotionally charged situation most of us couldn\'92 handle, such as giving words of comfort and morphine to a bleeding, wounded soldier dying before our very eyes.\
\
William Isbell \'95t. Louis County\
\
Leave the locks open\
\
It\'92 time to take a reasoned approach to the issue of Asian carp migration and separate it from scare tactics and calls for drastic action that could result in economic hardship.\
\
The carp were imported legally to this country in the 1970s by Arkansas catfish farmers. However, heavy flooding of the area two decades later allowed the fish to enter the Mississippi and other rivers and to migrate north.\
\
Now alarmists fear the carp will spread into the Great Lakes and have an impact on commerce, tourism, commercial fishing and other industries. Even though there is no sound evidence that the fish have breached existing control barriers, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is poised to close the locks that connect the Mississippi River to Lake Michigan to halt further migration.\
\
This is a rash and premature move that would seriously disrupt river commerce within the entire Mississippi River basin. Such action could damage regional economies, including that of Missouri. With a significant budget shortfall and an unemployment rate of 9.5 percent, our state can\'92 afford to lose revenue and jobs generated by river-based commerce and industries.\
\
Protecting the Great Lakes from Asian carp migration is a serious matter that deserves a long-term, comprehensive solution. Closing the locks will not solve the problem, but it will impose enormous economic costs on the entire Mississippi watershed region. There are more efficient, less extreme solutions that our public policymakers should examine and pursue now.\
\
Peter Fromknecht \'95t. Louis\
\
Viva New Mexico!\
\
After reading "Harkening to Jim Crow era" (May 17), an excerpt of a column by Washington Post columnist Eugene Robinson, I felt compelled to relate my recent personal experience while vacationing in New Mexico.\
\
While New Mexico sits next to Arizona and also shares a border with Mexico, its citizens and state government have decidedly different attitudes and policies toward non-Anglos in their state.\
\
New Mexico does not fear, discriminate against or try to get rid of those who are not from the white European tradition. In fact, they embrace their state\'92 diversity with open arms and pride. Spaniards, Mexicans and Native Americans from the Navajo, Ute, Zuni and Pueblo lands all are celebrated in the schools, museums and tourist literature and in everyday life.\
\
The rich cultural histories of all these peoples are noted with many festivals, food celebrations and music sharing. Most New Mexicans have relatives from two or more of the ethnicities mentioned above because they inter-marry and live in the same neighborhoods. At any moment, one can hear Spanish, Navajo or English spoken in public places, and no one cares.\
\
We all should strive to be like New Mexico, a state where everyone is given respect and treated the same because you are from the human race. When questioned during a live TV interview about whether his state was going to follow Arizona\'92 example and pass similar legislation aimed at immigrants, a state official\'92 jaw clenched momentarily and he replied, with as much tact as he could muster, "We are not Arizona, and we don\'92 want to be like Arizona."\
\
Viva New Mexico!\
\
Cathy Horneyer \'95irkwood\
\
Extra burden\
\
Eugene Robinson, a columnist from The Washington Post, and other people who are worried about the new immigration law in Arizona and its impact on civil rights should think about whose rights are being abused ("Harkening to Jim Crow era" (May 17). It is definitely is not the illegal immigrant who is breaking the law and, in so doing, placing extra burden on the legal citizens of the state.\
\
All you have to do is watch "Border Patrol" a few times to see how these people are breaking the law day after day, putting themselves, their family members and the border patrol officers on duty at risk.\
\
No one says these people are not welcome here if they obey the rules of entrance into this country. If they are not doing so, they have no rights.\
\
For years, anyone who came into this country needed someone to be responsible for them so that they would not be a burden to us.\
\
They had to be in good health, have a place to stay and have enough money to support themselves or a person to take care of their needs. They had to have a job waiting for them or had to look for work immediately. The government did not give them any help. Anyone who met all of these requirements would be welcome.\
\
This is all the people of Arizona are asking for, and they have the right.\
\
Dolores L Roberts \'95\'92allon, Mo.\
\
What passes for leadership now\
\
Janet Napolitano, former governor of Arizona and now Homeland Security chief, while being questioned by Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said that the new Arizona law against illegal immigration \'97hich is favored by 70 percent of Americans \'97is not one I would have approved," while also admitting that she hadn\'92 read it.\
\
She joins Attorney General Eric Holder, who may file a lawsuit against the Arizona law that he hasn\'92 read, and President Barack Obama, who called the law, which he hadn\'92 read either, "misguided."\
\
The Arizona law is a virtual replica of the existing federal law. It just allows the state to enforce the state law since the feds refuse to enforce the fed law.\
\
Thus, a president, an attorney general and a Homeland Security chief, three top civilian leaders responsible for the security of America, condemn a law that none of them has read that deals with the security of a state and that was enacted only because of the refusal of federal officials, elected and otherwise, to do their jobs, i.e., enforce the federal law.\
\
This is what passes for leadership and governance in Washington now. It would be hilarious were it not so pathetic.\
\
Al Dorn \'95\'92allon, Ill.\
\
How dare he?\
\
Mexican President Felipe Calderon publically criticized the new Arizona immigration law during his recent White House visit. He is out of line to attack a law in this country, especially one that mirrors federal immigration laws that have been on the books for years. Maybe he could have explained how immigration law in Mexico differs from that of the United States and how it is enforced there.\
\
Mr. Calderon should be spending his time and energy trying to improve conditions for his people at home so they are not moved to come to America to seek a better life. He also should be preparing to deal with the illegal immigrants who will be returning to their notoriously corrupt homeland in the next few years as the job market and social services they have taken advatage of here will be closed to them.\
\
Thomas O\'92oole \'95ureka\
\
Document SLMO000020100526e65m00004\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION
\f1\b0 \
\
1,190 words\
17 May 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A11\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Partisanship should play no role in judicial selection, whether elected or appointed\
\
As an elected judge, I was interested to read the editorial "No quarter" (May 10), regarding Missouri's method of selecting judges. We should not scrap the Nonpartisan Court Plan, but we must remember that most communities in Missouri are well-served by elected judges. The problem is partisanship, not whether judges are appointed or elected. We must support an independent and nonpartisan judiciary everywhere in Missouri.\
\
The editorial stated that elected judges necessarily become "political stooges." I disagree. I practiced law in front of elected and appointed judges, and I found both to be dedicated and capable. I serve as an elected judge in a courthouse full of elected judges of the highest integrity and competence.\
\
Nevertheless, partisanship should play no role in either the appointment or election of judges. The editorial correctly stated that partisanship tends to "minimize character, temperament and experience in the judicial selection process." Instead, the emphasis shifts to inappropriate political considerations. Partisanship is a threat to judicial independence, no matter where it occurs. Ironically, some judges are forbidden from any partisan activity, while other judges are forced to run in partisan elections. The inconsistency is glaring and must be eliminated.\
\
In 2007, state Sen. Kevin Engler sponsored a bill that would have removed party labels from judicial elections. That bill should be revisited. It is hypocritical to defend the Nonpartisan Court Plan while opposing the bill. Defend an independent judiciary, but do so for all of us.\
\
Darrell Missey - Fenton Judge, Jefferson County\
\
Wasted time\
\
The financial status of Missouri is in violation of all sound accounting and financial management practices. Expenses are outstripping income, education is suffering and the money-making Tour of Missouri is dead in the water over a $1 million state tourism stipend.\
\
The story "McGwire sign may be on last leg" (May 14) showed that in the midst of the worst economic crisis in the history of the state, our elected representatives, who would not debate financial issues, found the time and the money to remove a handful of meaningless signs honoring former Cardinal and one-time home-run champion Mark McGwire.\
\
The honor of having an interstate highway for the star ex-Cardinal (now coach) is insignificant. I am certain that Mr. McGwire won't miss a moment's sleep. What is significant is that the Legislature took the time and the funds that could have been applied productively to solve serious issues that impact every Missourian.\
\
Thank the Lord there are term limits.\
\
Stuart Katz - Chesterfield\
\
The Unity Bridge\
\
A perfect name for the new Mississippi River Bridge would be "The Unity Bridge." It is fitting because the bridge is a joint effort of and will unite Illinois and Missouri. Also, it will unite the eastern United States with the western United States, uniting the country, just as St. Louis functions as the "Gateway to the West." And, Missouri is the center of the United States (it has five states to the east and five to the west, three to the north and three to the south.)\
\
The "Unity Bridge" would symbolize our unity between sovereignty of and respect for citizens of all races, ethnic origins and political and religious preferences who abide by our Constitution, our laws and the rights of all other citizens.\
\
What better name? What better set of laws and principles? No name would be more meaningful or timelier.\
\
John J. Auld Jr. - Chesterfield\
\
Officers' duty\
\
Why are area officials thinking when they support a boycott of Arizona? Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer should be commended for signing the Immigration and Nationality Act last month. Police officers have a duty to stop, question, search and arrest people suspected of committing a crime. The Supreme Court affirmed that officers can stop people.\
\
In March, an Arizona rancher was shot by a suspected illegal immigrant. What if it had been a member of your family?\
\
Daniel Jackson - St. Louis County\
\
Calls for transparency\
\
In "Sex and drugs and the spill" (May 11), Paul Krugman implies that the Tea Party movement has wrought havoc in government regulatory agencies such as the Minerals Management Service. Such havoc has caused "degradation of effective government" and led to the BP Gulf of Mexico oil spill disaster.\
\
So calls for more transparent, more efficient and less corrupt government have caused inefficient, corrupt and secretive agencies and bureaucrats to become even worse. In other words, government critics and Tea Party members: shut up.\
\
David E. Duke - Chesterfield\
\
Back to the timetable\
\
Let's have the guts to see (and act) that the propping up of Afghani President Hamid Karzai's Afghanistan is a no-win game, or at least one where the odds are enormously against any "successful" outcome. Mr. Karzai can't do what we want of him for deep cultural-political reasons. We can chase the various Talibans all over the map of Afghanistan with out any final "surrender" on their part. But with "robust" bribes, we may peel off some fragments. This could be part of an expanded program of local socio-economic aid projects - after "three cups of tea."\
\
We should follow through on our 2011 timetable for starting to draw down our troops, but not precipitously - rather, very judiciously, keenly adapting to progress in buying off elements of the Taliban and progress related to local development projects. Of course, Mr. Karzai wants our military to stay indefinitely, but that's just for to hang on for his own interests and because it helps him avoid creative compromises on his feeble hold on power. There's no end to a policy of propping up Mr. Karzai.\
\
Even the long-term local-development aid is not a certainty for rehabilitating Afghanistan, but it is the best hope in an otherwise-dismal prognosis beyond our control. And it gives us eyes for any return of al-Qaida. Nothing will be easy in this greatly wounded - in every sense - country. (For what it's worth, I was there for three years, from 1974 through 1978.)\
\
Al Edgell - St. Louis\
\
Raw milk is not safe for consumption\
\
Regarding "The debate over raw milk" (May 10): As a registered and licensed dietitian who has been educating the public on nutrition and health for more than 19 years, I want to reiterate the importance of only consuming milk that has been pasteurized.\
\
Pasteurization is a simple, effective method to kill harmful pathogens. It does not affect the nutritional value of milk in any meaningful way. Pasteurization typically involves heating raw milk to at least 161 degrees Fahrenheit for at least 15 seconds and then immediately cooling it. This process helps kill the bacteria responsible for diseases such as listeriosis and salmonellosis, as well as food poisoning-like symptoms, some of which can have longer-term negative health effects.\
\
All milk intended for consumption should be pasteurized - it's a matter of food safety.\
\
Marilyn Tanner-Blasiar - St. Louis Registered dietitian and study coordinator, Washington University School of Medicine; and spokeswoman, American Dietetic Association\
\
Document SLMO000020100517e65h0005n\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b UMKC professor helped write Arizona law Lawmakers from around the country have been seeking his advice, and he is involved in nine immigration lawsuits.
\f1\b0 \
\
By Anna Gorman \'95os Angeles Times   \
1,381 words\
16 May 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
First Edition\
A4\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
KANSAS CITY - Hundreds of miles from Arizona, law professor Kris Kobach leaned back in his chair at the University of Missouri at Kansas City, took a sip of coffee out of a Justice Department mug and calmly defended the controversial immigration law he helped write.\
\
At 9 a.m. this Tuesday, he is on hold with a radio station in Tucson and in an interview with another in St. Louis. He has three more lined up.\
\
Since Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law last month, Arizona has become ground zero in the debate over illegal immigration. Senate Bill 1070, which has prompted protests, boycotts and lawsuits, makes it a crime to lack immigration papers and requires police to determine whether people they stop are in the country illegally. President Barack Obama called it misguided and warned that it could lead to racial profiling.\
\
Kobach said the law actually discourages racial profiling and only kicks in when someone violates another law.\
\
"If they are running down the street with a pistol in one hand and a bag of money in the other and someone screaming, 'Bring back my money,' then the police officer can stop them," he said. "But just walking down the street, of course not."\
\
In the last few weeks, Kobach has been contacted by legislators from around the country seeking his advice and has been interviewed on local and national radio and television programs more than 50 times. A national survey released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press found that 59 percent of adults polled supported the law.\
\
Kobach, 44, is an Ivy League-educated, outspoken advocate for the movement to fight illegal immigration and the go-to guy for cities and states looking to pass laws against it. He is counsel on nine ongoing cases around the country targeting sanctuary cities and in-state tuition for illegal immigrants and defending the right of cities to prohibit landlords from renting to illegal immigrants and employers from hiring them.\
\
Kobach said he is motivated by a desire to "restore the rule of law" in immigration and to show that states and cities can do their part to help the federal government with enforcement.\
\
His opponents say that the laws Kobach writes and defends promote discrimination.\
\
"At the end of the day, his involvement has been costly and the laws that he has supported have been divisive," said Omar Jadwat, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union who has appeared opposite Kobach in courts in Pennsylvania, Texas and Missouri. "They distract and divert the resources of these towns and cities into hugely controversial and expensive sideshows that benefit only him."\
\
Just before 7 p.m. on a recent weeknight, Kobach pulled up to the Community Center in Lansing, Kan., in a GMC Sierra with the license plate "1787," the year the U.S. Constitution was created. Inside, the recent college graduate running Kobach's campaign for Kansas secretary of state handed out stickers and lawn signs.\
\
Kobach stood in front of an American flag and told a crowd gathered for the Republican town hall meeting that Arizona had long been under siege by kidnappers, drug dealers and human smugglers from other countries and that something had to be done. When he described the gunbattle that resulted in the recent shooting of a sheriff's deputy, the audience gasped. When he talked about the state's efforts to make life miserable for illegal immigrants so they will return to their native countries, they applauded.\
\
"It's not rocket science," he said. "You ratchet up the level of enforcement so people leave on their own."\
\
After the speech, several people lined up to shake Kobach's hand. Among them was Dennis Bixby, whose 19-year-old daughter was killed in 2007 after an illegal immigrant without a drivers license ran a stop sign.\
\
"He gets it," Bixby said of Kobach. "He's willing to fight the fight."\
\
Leavenworth County Republican Party Chairman John Bradford said that if Kobach is speaking, people show up. "People love him," he said. "Finally there is somebody stepping up and doing something about (illegal immigration)."\
\
Kobach said that adding "rhetorical flourishes" on TV is entertaining, but in court he sticks to the legal arguments.\
\
"It's about threading the legal needle and making sure that it all stands up in court," he said.\
\
Judges often have the final say on the constitutionality of restrictive immigration laws. In California, the federal courts struck down Proposition 187, which sought to deny public education and benefits to illegal immigrants, as an attempt to usurp federal responsibility.\
\
In Kobach's cases, the decisions have been mixed. He lost cases in Texas and Pennsylvania, where cities sought to prohibit landlords from renting to illegal immigrants. Kobach appealed and both cases are pending. He won a case in California, where he argued that the state could not offer discounted tuition to illegal immigrants while not offering the same to students from outside California. That case is pending in the state Supreme Court.\
\
In Arizona, Kobach helped state Sen. Russell Pearce draft a 2007 bill that required all businesses to use an electronic employment verification system. Kobach said Pearce asked him to help write the new immigration law.\
\
Kobach defended the employer law and said he is confident that the current law will sustain legal challenges too. "It was drafted to withstand every legal argument that can be thrown at it," he said. "It's built like a tank."\
\
Raised in Kansas, Kobach attended Harvard College and Yale Law School and earned a doctorate from Oxford University. In 2001, just before Sept. 11, he began working under Attorney General John Ashcroft, an experience that he said made him keenly interested in immigration and the crucial link between immigration policy and national security. Before the attacks, several of the hijackers had been stopped by local police for traffic violations. "We had a missed opportunity of tragic dimensions," he said. Kobach helped create a registration program designed to catch potential terrorists from Middle Eastern countries.\
\
Hamid Khan, executive director of the South Asian Network in Artesia, said the registration policy created a lot of fear and resulted in the deportation of many people without terrorist links. "It became a clear reminder of how communities are criminalized and how race and racial identity are how people get identified," he said.\
\
Kobach began teaching at UMKC in 1996 and now teaches several classes, including constitutional law and immigration law. His office is decorated with framed photographs of his family and of himself with President George W. Bush, along with stacks of legal textbooks and court documents and a talking George Washington doll.\
\
Jennifer Kerr, a student in his immigration class who agrees with her professor's beliefs, said Kobach encouraged students to engage in "spirited debate" about the issue.\
\
"People in the class had different opinions," she said. "They were all over the spectrum. Some vehemently opposed him."\
\
The professor in the office next door, Douglas Linder, disagrees with Kobach on almost everything - from the interpretation of the Constitution to immigration policy. Linder said he believes the Arizona law violates the Constitution, will result in racial profiling and threatens the relationship between local police officers and community members.\
\
"In all the debates we've had, I'm not sure I've ever been successful convincing him he's wrong about anything," Linder said. "He has very strong opinions."\
\
Kobach's wife, Heather, said she agrees with her husband's politics but that his immigration work has taken a toll on her. When opponents call him racist, she gets offended and feels like a "nervous wreck."\
\
"I think of him as a soldier," she said. "He gets attacked all the time. He continues to do it because he believes it."\
\
Ed Zurga \'95ssociated Press  Ed Zurga \'95ssociated Press Kris Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri at Kansas City, advised Arizona officials on their new immigration law. Kobach is running for the Republican nomination for Kansas secretary of state.   \
\
Document SLMO000020100516e65g0003b\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION
\f1\b0 \
\
1,321 words\
7 May 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A16\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Illinois is cutting mental health safety net when it is needed most\
\
The new health care reform law that President Barack Obama signed in March includes parity for mental health and addiction services and helps to protect patients with pre-existing conditions by banning discriminatory health insurance industry practices.\
\
As of April 1, the law allows states to apply for federal funding to expand their Medicaid programs to cover low-income people earning up to 133 percent of the poverty level, or about $14,400 for an individual and about $29,300 for a family of four. This provision will help many people in Illinois who are unemployed or struggling financially.\
\
Illinois and other states are enacting drastic budget cuts to mental health services that are taking a heavy toll on consumers, families and provider agencies.\
\
Partly in response to difficult fiscal circumstances, Illinois has cut mental health funding while we and other mental health centers and providers are reporting a substantial increase in demand for mental health and addiction treatment services. Illinois' budget cuts are cutting away our state's mental health safety net just when it is most needed.\
\
As Illinois drastically reduces community-based services for people living with mental health and addiction disorders, the people and their illnesses do not go away. These people wind up in more expensive treatment settings - emergency rooms, psychiatric hospitals, nursing facilities, homeless shelters or the costly criminal justice system. Their chances of recovery are much lower while costs associated with their treatment are much higher.\
\
Legislators must understand that cutting mental health contracts may appear to save money, but over the long term it will cost the state and municipalities millions in other places, including jails and hospitals.\
\
Karen Sopronyi-Tompkins - Alton Executive Director, Community Counseling Center\
\
Cheaper to stay home\
\
Shame on the state for doing anything that makes it harder for people to stay home or to restrict providers of home care from being able to offer care at home. The home-care industry is growing, fueled by our desire to remain at home. Almost any service needed is available to help support people in their homes: transportation, help with meals, personal care, companionship, visits to the doctor, nursing care and more. Fewer than 25 years ago, many of these services were not widely available. Today, they are. People want to stay home. Home-care providers have listened and developed services to do just that.\
\
Most of us do not qualify for Medicaid services. For those Missourians who do, what is left of the home care services structure at the end of this legislative session may not be sufficient to meet their needs. If home care or the appropriate level of services are not available, a nursing home often is the only other option.\
\
Medicaid pays approximately $40,000 a year for a person to live in a nursing home. Medicaid pays approximately $6,500 a year to help a person at home. Why would the state want to restrict a person's ability to remain at home when the cost for a nursing home bed is six times as much?\
\
Long-term care is paid for through a variety of sources, including private funds, insurance, Medicaid and, to a limited extent, Medicare. Nursing homes are an essential part of the long-term care continuum, but being in a nursing home because home-care options are limited by misdirected public policy is not right.\
\
The governor and the Legislature should look at the budget crisis as an opportunity to expand home care and restrict unnecessary placement in a nursing home. Give Missourians true options to fulfill the wish of most of us: to stay home.\
\
Mary Schantz - Jefferson City Executive Director, Missouri Alliance for Home Care\
\
Name it for 'the cool'\
\
"The Miles Davis Memorial Bridge" is the name I propose for our new bi-state bridge.\
\
Miles Davis is internationally recognized as a jazz icon. His first great album, "The Birth of the Cool," sets a theme for what visitors and residents may feel when seeing our new bridge and the Gateway Arch.\
\
Miles Davis was born in Alton, raised in East St. Louis and returned to St. Louis for many performances in his 50-year career. His showcased inclusion in a permanent blues and jazz exhibit has been a key part of learning for visitors to the Missouri History Museum in St. Louis.\
\
Ten minutes before being able to see the Gateway Arch, riders could read a sign noting they are 10 miles from the Miles Davis Memorial Bridge and be invited to tune in to a 24-hour Miles Davis radio station.\
\
Just as you are crossing the Mississippi, if you are listening to one of his most famous songs from the legendary Kind of Blue album, "So What," the overall experience could not represent this region in a more sophisticated manner.\
\
A park at the foot of the bridge on either side of the Mississippi could have a small amphitheater for performances in a dramatic setting.\
\
Mr. Davis provided a major bridge for the development of musical history in this country. It is only fitting to return the favor and have a bridge to celebrate the man and his music.\
\
Aaron Williams - St. Louis\
\
Rule of law\
\
We are a nation based on the rule of law, and the law is abundantly clear regarding illegal immigration. Several of our border states are being and have been invaded by illegal immigrants, and the cost to the states' treasuries and the job market is breathtaking.\
\
Our borders need to be sealed. Illegals should be deported (no exceptions), and the federal government should stop playing politics and support the rights of states to protect their citizens. The governor of Arizona got it right when she said she is going to protect the people of Arizona.\
\
Tens of millions of us served in our armed forces, starting with George Washington and continuing today. Many made the supreme sacrifice and some continue to risk their lives today in Afghanistan and other war-torn countries. Yet, here at home, our politicians wring their hands in despair and do nothing to protect our borders. Shame on them, and shame on us for allowing it to happen.\
\
W.I. Ferrier - Wentzville\
\
Law enforcement first\
\
As I read the Post-Dispatch on May 1, I was surprised at the articles on pages A4 and A5. Page 4 had two articles about the new immigration law in Arizona. One was about the crowds protesting the law ("Controversial immigration law tweaked"). The other was about the Supreme Court preparing to hear a challenge to a different immigration law ("Call awaited on other Arizona law"). On page 5 was "Deputy rescued," an article about an Arizona sheriff's deputy who was shot with an AK-47, a military assault rifle, by a suspected illegal immigrant allegedly bringing bales of marijuana into this country.\
\
What do you think the family and friends of the deputy think of the new law?\
\
The article about the shot deputy took up about one-fifteenth the space of the other two. Is the paper 15 times more concerned about the rights of illegal immigrants than it is about our law enforcement officers?\
\
William C. Verhine - St. Charles\
\
Ranting and raving\
\
President Barack Obama said that it troubles him when he hears people say that all government is inherently bad and that ranting and name-calling pose a serious danger to America as they might incite extreme elements to violence ("Obama warns against anti-government rants," May 2).\
\
I did not see the other side of the story. Mr. Obama sat in a church for 20 years as his pastor ranted and raved and cursed America. Mr. Obama apparently said nothing.\
\
When reporting a story, please tell both sides.\
\
Paul F. Clark - St. Charles\
\
Document SLMO000020100508e65700001\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b LETTERS FROM OUR READERS
\f1\b0 \
\
1,950 words\
1 May 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
First Edition\
A11\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Alzheimer's toll on caregivers is rough, too\
\
I could relate to Colleen Carroll Campbell's column "Alzheimer's kills memories, not emotions" (April 22), as I have stood at the same window, looking into the face of a loved one living forever in the moment.\
\
Sadly, many of those moments are spent in a challenging emotional landscape devoid of choice, lacking the context of memory or the safety net of love that normally anchors people to their rightful place in the world.\
\
In the United States, 5 million people have Alzheimer's disease. In Missouri, 110,000 people age 65 or older have Alzheimer's or related dementia. About 200,000 people in Missouri are caregivers for people with Alzheimer's and dementia. The value of their unpaid care is an astounding $2.6 billion.\
\
As a member of the Missouri State Alzheimer's Task Force, I am honored to address the challenges of Alzheimer's disease, such as caregiving. Others may share their thoughts, concerns and ideas at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.blogs.mo.gov/alztaskforce/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 www.blogs.mo.gov/alztaskforce/}}.\
\
Caregivers experience joy and sorrow daily. Caregivers serve as their loved ones' living memory and preserve their integrity. They provide the best care possible with love and tenderness and with painstakingly constant supervision. And watching a loved one who has a chronic and disabling condition progressively decline can be agony.\
\
Even love cannot prepare a person for the realities of caregiving. Although being cared for at home has been shown to help a person retain functionality, emotional security and individuality, it can cause feelings of isolation, loss of employment and income and estrangement from friends in caregivers.\
\
Family caregivers should be able to ask for and receive assistance so they can care for their loved ones at home. The alternative is to risk emotional neglect and depersonalization that often accompanies institutionalization. People often lose their identity when they lose their memory. This allows others to forget them and places them at risk. And even though people with Alzheimer's might not remember the actions, they just might register and relive the emotional impact of those actions.\
\
My father had Alzheimer's disease, but that does not tell the story of who he was or how he lived his life. While alive, he was not a man who worried about inspiring others. He simply and genuinely liked people and fearlessly jumped in with both feet to help them. Still, he has inspired me, and I think he would be pleased that his last experiences on Earth have galvanized a personal and professional passion and purpose.\
\
Dr. Maureen E. Dempsey - St. Louis County\
\
Education cuts: An economic issue\
\
Anyone interested in the reduction in fiscal resources for schools should read Linda Darling-Hammond's new book, "The Flat World and Education." This book discusses what needs to be done if America is to rebuild an educational system that enables us to compete with the rest of the world.\
\
This book outlines what other nations have been successfully doing to close their achievement gaps and move their students toward the knowledge and skill sets needed for the 21st century. As Ms. Darling-Hammond states, we will need "a thoughtful, well-organized, and well supported set of policies that will enable students to learn how to learn, create and invent the new world they are entering."\
\
We rapidly are losing ground to other nations that are investing heavily in education. If we don't shift course, we will be left even farther behind. Not investing in education will cost much more than investment, including the "$200 billion a year we now lose in wages, taxes and social costs due to drop-outs."\
\
We know that bright, well-prepared, innovative educators in smaller schools where teachers have smaller class sizes make a difference in achievement. We also know that educating the affluent well but leaving the poor behind will not lead to economic strength in this information age.\
\
We all should be extremely concerned over the drastic fiscal cuts to education; if we don't care morally we should care economically.\
\
Nancy L. Williams - St. Louis County Associate Dean, School of Education, Maryville University-St. Louis\
\
Shamans can't stop it\
\
A recent letter written by three scientists is another example of those who think they know the answers and do not want to be blinded by history and the facts.\
\
Climate extremists who want to change our lives and businesses are not the last or the only word. There are many reports and studies not funded by government or business that clearly show climate change is a part of the Earth's natural function and is not connected to human activity. Some of the these reports show that increased carbon dioxide and warming are beneficial - not harmful - to our environment.\
\
More than 31,000 American scientists signed a petition denying the human causes of climate change and any ill effects of natural climate change. That is more than a dissenting voice.\
\
Readers should ask how these people are capable of determining what is the correct temperature and climate for this Earth and atmosphere, which have been changing for more than a billion years. We just now are recovering from the last little ice age, when the Earth was considerably cooler than most would consider ideal.\
\
It is all part of the normal cycles of the Earth and its atmosphere and no modern witch doctors and shamans are going to stop it.\
\
Jim Schild - Columbia, Ill.\
\
Not all bad\
\
A recent letter affirmed the reality of global warming and the probable contribution of carbon dioxide from combustion of fossil fuels. However, the letter did not address the question of whether warming actually will be harmful.\
\
Historic episodes of warm climate, probably warmer than today, were beneficial for humanity. For example, the Viking settlement of Iceland and Greenland occurred during the Medieval Climatic Maximum (warm period) of about 800-1200. The Greenland colony disappeared and Icelanders suffered severe hardship during the Little Ice Age of 1300-1800.\
\
As climate warms, growing seasons lengthen, and it becomes possible to grow food farther and farther north in Canada, the northern United States, Russia and Scandinavia.\
\
For good physics reasons, presently warm climates do not become hotter. Warming should be welcomed as good for humanity.\
\
Jonathan Katz - University City\
\
Sorry I was silent\
\
Regarding Leonard Pitts' column "Yearning for a bygone America" (April 25): I have that yearning, and I'm in that group described by Mr. Pitts as white, male and Republican, except I'm over 80 and I am not richer than most.\
\
But I am fed up with the socialist direction our country is taking, fueled by and large by the left. Spending is out of control, creating a debt that eventually will destroy our great country. Our government is growing beyond belief and slowly spreading its tentacles into each nook and cranny of our lives.\
\
I can't lay it all on the doorstep of the Democratic Party because the Republicans are just as bad.\
\
I did not scream when President George W. Bush felt that he was not bound by laws with which he did not agree or when he took over troubled financial institutions or when he spent us deep into deficit, but I should have, and I regret every day that I did not.\
\
But the fact that I stood silent then is not an excuse to stand silent today on those same issues.\
\
What happened to our bygone America of small government? Thrift was the norm. We paid our bills, and if we couldn't afford something, we didn't buy it.\
\
Yes, give me back my bygone America Mr. Pitts, and be wary of those searching for what they think it should be, because they will destroy what our Founding Fathers brilliantly crafted.\
\
H.B. Pratt - Chesterfield\
\
Still in effect\
\
A recent letter suggested that Arizona pass laws "... enalizing employers with fines for knowingly hiring illegal immigrants." Federal laws applying to all employers in the United States that do just that were passed in 1986, and they are still in effect.\
\
If one searches the Internet for Federal Form I-9, one will find that effective tools, including meaningful fines, are in place to be enforced by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement under the Department of Homeland Security. In fact, were that 1986 legislation properly enforced today, one might argue that current immigration reform being discussed, as it relates to workers versus drug crimes, might be unnecessary.\
\
Effective enforcement of the Federal Form I-9 could be achieved at minimal cost. All that would be necessary would be to let all employers know that the law is in effect and ICE expects to increase collection of fines. Employers should be encouraged to ask their attorneys or accountants for guidance, and attorneys and accountants should gear up for additional professional services to be provided to their clients. This action would have a major impact on the number of undocumented illegal immigrants in our country, and it might help with our own unemployment rates.\
\
Unfortunately, the media and other public figures seem unwilling to encourage the vigorous enforcement of this law. Nevertheless, what little enforcement has taken place over the years has been very effective based on various news releases available through simple searches of the ICE website or at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.goi9.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 www.goi9.com}}.\
\
The success of enforcing this law could be a boon to politicians on all sides and ideologies because it is already a done deal and it could eliminate the controversies now brewing.\
\
It is reported that the current economic climate has resulted in a significant decrease in the estimated numbers of undocumented illegal immigrant workers. This supports the argument that if employers were not hiring those workers, they would not cross the border and those who have already have would return if there is no work.\
\
It would also be appropriate for the costs of landscaping or other services provided by undocumented illegal immigrants to increase to recognize the added costs of using legal workers - as it is appropriate for prices to be adjusted by Wal-Mart and Nike when foreign sweat shops are eliminated from their manufacturing processes.\
\
Thomas Delaney - St. Louis County\
\
Soon to be a minority\
\
It is no surprise that the Post-Dispatch is outraged about the new Arizona law ("Uncivil rights," April 28). The Post-Dispatch thinks that this new Arizona law will energize the Democratic base. Fine, let the paper's writers live in their fantasy world as the rest of America goes to the polls in November to throw the Democrats out.\
\
What the Democrats refuse to understand is that the vast majority of Americans clearly support a crackdown on illegal aliens. Americans are tired of them using our health care resources, our schooling resources and every other type of assistance the country offers.\
\
Apparently, the Democrats don't understand what the word illegal means. What it means is that if the Democrats continue on this self-destructive path of disregarding the views of the majority of Americans, they will become the minority party for the next 40 years - and deservedly so.\
\
Marc Schoenfeld - Chesterfield\
\
Field inspection\
\
Groups opposed to Arizona's new immigration law are encouraging a boycott of baseball games where the Arizona Diamondbacks are the visiting team. But what about Diamondbacks'home games?\
\
Perhaps on the field before each game, visiting players of Hispanic descent who consider Arizona's new law offensive and discriminatory should openly present their citizenship or visa papers to Arizona law enforcement agents who are providing security for the game.\
\
Joe Simon - Kirkwood\
\
Document SLMO000020100502e651000ag\
\page \
\
\
Editorial\

\f2\b Uncivil rights Editorial notebook \'95rizona's new immigration law flouts our constitutional rights.
\f1\b0 \
\
- Gilbert Bailon   \
596 words\
28 April 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A12\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Recent history is littered with failed attempts by state or local politicians to create laws to trump federal oversight of immigration.\
\
The most infamous of these was California Proposition 187 in 1994, where 59 percent of voters approved a measure championed by Gov. Pete Wilson. The law would have denied illegal immigrants access to health care, education and social services. It was overturned by a federal judge, who ruled in 1997 that regulating immigration is a federal responsibility.\
\
Nonetheless, Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer last Friday signed Senate Bill 1070, passed by a Tea Party-inspired state legislature. It calls for local law enforcement officers to check the legal documents of anyone "where reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an alien who is unlawfully in the United States."\
\
The less-government, law-and-order "patriots" passed a law that runs afoul of protections within the Bill of Rights, rights that apply to everyone in this country, regardless of citizenship.\
\
It is absurd to believe that police officers can identify illegal immigrants without racially profiling people based on ethnicity, nationality or language. What are the traits of an illegal immigrant? The law doesn't specify.\
\
As a third-generation Mexican-American and native Arizonan, I and many in my native state view this law as a personal insult that attacks the essence of our freedoms and our right to pursue the American Dream. Every American now should be worried about his own civil rights.\
\
Should I take my passport when I visit relatives? What if I wear my boots and a Mexican soccer jersey while eating at a taqueria in South Phoenix? My mother, 81, wonders whether she should carry a birth certificate - even though she is an Arizona native, the daughter of a migrant from Chihuahua, Mexico, who came to work in the copper mines in the early 1900s, long before the Border Patrol was formed in 1924.\
\
Ironies abound. On Tuesday night, fans jammed a sports arena to cheer the Phoenix Coyotes in game seven of the hockey playoffs. The Coyotes have only four U.S.-born players; their star goalie is Russian. The Arizona Diamondbacks have key baseball players from Mexico, Venezuela and the Dominican Republic.\
\
Which ones should cops be "reasonably suspicious" of?\
\
Illegal immigration has been a vexing problem for decades. It won't be fixed until Congress passes comprehensive changes regarding enforcement, hiring foreign-born workers and legalization of illegal immigrants who meet rigorous standards.\
\
Border enforcement and personnel have increased significantly under the Bush and Obama administrations, especially since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Yet our immigration system remains tattered.\
\
Negative reaction to SB 1070 has been broad and swift. Critics include President Barack Obama, Mexican President Felipe Calder\'f3, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano (a former Arizona governor) and Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon. The American Immigration Lawyers Association, along with Los Angeles' La Opini\'f3, the nation's largest Spanish-language daily newspaper, have called for an economic and tourism boycott of Arizona.\
\
This Saturday, many cities - including St. Louis - will see May Day marches advocating immigration reform and civil rights. Arizona lawmakers - most of them Republican - unintentionally have created a galvanizing issue to help mobilize Democrats in the fall elections.\
\
Legal precedent suggests that eventually the law will be reversed. But in the meantime, the firestorm has put immigration back on the national stage, where ultimate solutions might be possible instead of one-off sideshows that violate our fundamental rights.\
\
- Gilbert Bailon\
\
Document SLMO000020100428e64s00064\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b DIGEST - NATION
\f1\b0 \
\
From news services   \
276 words\
10 February 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A13\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Illegal immigrant numbers here fall\
\
The number of illegal immigrants living in the United States dropped by 1 million people in two years, according to estimates by the Department of Homeland Security. The government thinks 10.8 million illegal immigrants lived in the country in January 2009, down from a peak of nearly 12 million in 2007.\
\
A break for Boeing - Boeing is expected to benefit as Rep. Norm Dicks, D-Wash., becomes chairman of the Appropriations Defense subcommittee, left vacant by the death of Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa. Boeing is a major employer in Dicks' district. He has lobbied for years for Boeing to win a $35 billion contract for a new fleet of midair refueling tankers.\
\
Bailout payback - Former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson predicted the U.S. government will regain every penny given to the nation's banks during the economic meltdown and may even profit. Billionaire Warren Buffett agreed.\
\
Smell of gas - A worker who was in a Connecticut power plant when it exploded on Sunday said there was a smell of natural gas in the plant less than an hour before the blast. Paul Gaskins was working on a steam turbine at the Kleen Energy plant in Middletown on Sunday when he was blown out the side of the building from the force of the explosion.\
\
CT scan changes - The Food and Drug Administration said it will work with doctors and manufacturers to reduce unnecessary radiation exposure from medical scans, a problem that has been growing for decades. The agency says it will require safety controls that prevent patients from receiving excessive radiation doses.\
\
Document SLMO000020100210e62a00008\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b DIGEST - NATION
\f1\b0 \
\
From news services   \
683 words\
5 January 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
First Edition\
A12\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Obama back in Washington after Hawaiian holiday\
\
President Barack Obama returned Monday to the White House he never really escaped. Obama and his family took an overnight flight from Hawaii, capping an 11-day holiday vacation sure to be remembered more for the botched attempt to blow up a Christmas Day flight than the hours spent on golf courses or at luaus. The failed terrorist attack refocused the president's trip from R&R on the island of Oahu to a river of memos from homeland security aides.\
\
Border agent kills suspected illegal immigrant - Authorities say an illegal immigrant was shot and killed by a U.S. Border Patrol agent who was attacked with rocks in southern Arizona. Border Patrol spokesman Omar Candelaria says the shooting occurred Monday after the agent encountered the man just outside Douglas, Ariz. Authorities say the man assaulted the agent with rocks, and the unidentified agent shot back. The man, whose name also was not released, died while being transported to a hospital. Candelaria says the agent also was taken to the hospital but was later released.\
\
Houston mayor cites milestone for gays - Houston Mayor Annise Parker said Monday that her election to lead the nation's fourth-largest city marked a milestone for gay Americans but was just "one step toward a tomorrow of greater justice." Parker was sworn in over the weekend in a private ceremony and repeated her oath at a public ceremony Monday. Her election made Houston the largest U.S. city to elect an openly gay mayor.\
\
Massachusetts state senator jailed for alcohol use - A Massachusetts state senator who blamed his toothpaste for failing an alcohol screening has been ordered to jail for a year for violating his probation in a hit-and-run accident. Cambridge Democrat Anthony Galluccio pleaded guilty last month of leaving the scene of an accident that caused minor injuries to two people. As part of his probation, he was ordered to abstain from alcohol and to submit to random testing. On Dec. 21, he tested positive for alcohol. Galluccio claims the positive readings were the result of toothpastes that contain sorbitol, a sugar alcohol and artificial sweetener.\
\
Principal in SUV strikes student in crosswalk - A middle-school principal in Pennsylvania struck a high school student with her SUV at a crosswalk Monday and stayed at the scene with emergency crews but didn't identify herself as the driver until calling authorities 50 minutes later, police said. Margaret Kantes, 66, struck the student at an intersection about 6:50 a.m. The Pennridge High School student, 15, suffered head injuries and was in critical but stable condition at Lehigh Valley Hospital, Pennridge Regional Police Chief David A. Mettin said. He did not release the student's name.\
\
Teen pleads guilty in guard's death at youth prison - An Ohio teen has pleaded guilty in the death of a juvenile detention guard in what the defense portrayed as an impromptu wrestling match. Hubert Morgan, 18, of Wakeman, Ohio, pleaded guilty Monday of voluntary manslaughter. He could get up to 10 years in prison at his sentencing Feb. 2. Morgan was 17 when William Hesson, 39, of North Canton, Ohio, died in April. He was a guard at the Cuyahoga Hills juvenile detention center in Highland Hills, near Cleveland. Hesson died of a heart problem caused by a blow to the abdomen.\
\
Kerry undergoes second hip replacement - Sen. John Kerry returned to Massachusetts General Hospital on Monday for a second hip replacement by the doctor who replaced his right hip in August. In both cases, the joints had become arthritic and inflexible.\
\
Power out for one hour at Reagan National Airport - Flights were grounded for about an hour Monday when power went out at Reagan National Airport outside Washington. The power was out from 12:30 p.m. until 1:30 p.m., said Courtney Mickalonis, a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority. Mickalonis said the problem originated at an airport substation, but the cause of the failure is still under investigation.\
\
Document SLMO000020100115e615000fu\
\page \
\
\
News\

\f2\b DIGEST - NATION
\f1\b0 \
\
From news services   \
707 words\
5 January 2010\
St. Louis Post-Dispatch\
SLMO\
Third Edition\
A12\
English\
Copyright 2010, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.   \
\
0\
\
Obama back in Washington after Hawaiian holiday\
\
President Barack Obama returned Monday to the White House he never really escaped. Obama and his family took an overnight flight from Hawaii, capping an 11-day holiday vacation sure to be remembered more for the botched attempt to blow up a Christmas Day flight than the hours spent on golf courses or at luaus. The failed terrorist attack refocused the president's trip from R&R on the island of Oahu to a river of memos from homeland security aides.\
\
3rd uninvited guest at dinner - A third uninvited guest made his way into the White House state dinner for India's prime minister in November, the Secret Service said Monday. As the Secret Service was reviewing how an attention-hungry couple - Tareq and Michaele Salahi - got into the dinner without being on the guest list, officials discovered that a third person made it through security without an invitation as well. The Secret Service said the man - whom they would not identify - did not get close to the president or the first lady. The Washington Post, citing an anonymous source, identified the third uninvited guest as Carlos Allen, a party promoter based in Washington.\
\
Border agent kills suspected illegal immigrant - Authorities say an illegal immigrant was shot and killed by a U.S. Border Patrol agent who was attacked with rocks in southern Arizona. Border Patrol spokesman Omar Candelaria says the shooting occurred Monday after the agent encountered the man just outside Douglas, Ariz. Authorities say the man assaulted the agent with rocks, and the unidentified agent shot back. The man, whose name also was not released, died while being transported to a hospital. Candelaria says the agent also was taken to the hospital but was later released.\
\
Houston mayor cites milestone for gays - Houston Mayor Annise Parker said Monday that her election to lead the nation's fourth-largest city marked a milestone for gays but was just "one step toward a tomorrow of greater justice." Parker was sworn in over the weekend in a private ceremony and repeated her oath at a public ceremony Monday.\
\
Massachusetts state senator jailed for alcohol use - A Massachusetts state senator who blamed his toothpaste for failing an alcohol screening has been ordered to jail for a year for violating his probation in a hit-and-run accident. Cambridge Democrat Anthony Galluccio pleaded guilty last month of leaving the scene of an accident that caused minor injuries to two people. As part of his probation, he was ordered to abstain from alcohol and to submit to random testing. On Dec. 21, he tested positive for alcohol. Galluccio claims the positive readings were the result of toothpastes that contain sorbitol, a sugar alcohol and artificial sweetener.\
\
Principal in SUV strikes student in crosswalk - A middle-school principal in Pennsylvania struck a high school student with her SUV at a crosswalk Monday and stayed at the scene with emergency crews but didn't identify herself as the driver until calling authorities 50 minutes later, police said. Margaret Kantes, 66, struck the student at an intersection about 6:50 a.m. The Pennridge High School student, 15, suffered head injuries and was in critical condition at Lehigh Valley Hospital, Pennridge Regional Police Chief David A. Mettin said. He did not release the student's name.\
\
Teen pleads guilty in guard's death at youth prison - An Ohio teen has pleaded guilty in the death of a juvenile detention guard in what the defense portrayed as an impromptu wrestling match. Hubert Morgan, 18, of Wakeman, Ohio, pleaded guilty Monday of voluntary manslaughter. He could get up to 10 years in prison at his sentencing Feb. 2. Morgan was 17 when William Hesson, 39, of North Canton, Ohio, died in April. He was a guard at the Cuyahoga Hills juvenile detention center in Highland Hills, near Cleveland. Hesson died of a heart problem caused by a blow to the abdomen.\
\
Kerry undergoes second hip replacement - Sen. John Kerry returned to Massachusetts General Hospital on Monday for a second hip replacement by the doctor who replaced his right hip in August. In both cases, the joints had become arthritic and inflexible.\
\
Document SLMO000020100105e6150002f\
\

\f2\b Search Summary
\f1\b0 \
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0  Text\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 illegal immigrant \cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Date\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 01/01/2010 to 12/31/2020\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Source\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 St. Louis Post-Dispatch\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Author\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 All Authors\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Company\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 All Companies\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Subject\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0  Not Commentaries/Opinions Not Columns Not Reviews Not Editorials\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Industry\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 All Industries\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Region\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 All Regions\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Language\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 All Languages\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Results Found\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 70\cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0    Timestamp\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab360\li50\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3 April 2022 14:33\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0   \
}